Title: The effects of dose  dose rate  and irradiation type and their equivalence on radiation-induced segregation in binary alloy systems via phase-field simulations

Abstract: Radiation-induced segregation is a phenomenon commonly observed in many alloys which consists of the redistribution of elements (solute or interstitial impurities) under irradiation. The onset and development of radiation-induced segregation can only occur when a sufficient flux of defects is sustained and defect sinks are present. Irradiation dose, dose rate, and particle types all affect defect flux. In this work, we employ a phase-field model to examine the effects of dose, dose rate, and type of incident particles on radiation-induced segregation behavior in a model binary alloy. The phase-field model takes into account the formation and evolution of point defects as well as defect clusters, the diffusion and clustering of alloy species, the presence of additional extrinsic defect sinks in the form of dislocations, and two different methods of radiation-damage insertion, which are intended to simulate either light-ion/electron irradiation via Frenkel pairs or heavy-ion irradiation in the form of cascades. Our results show a dose-rate and particle-type dependence on the amount of solute segregation. We show that the material systems exposed to higher dose rates are less subjected to solute segregation at equivalent doses. We also show that such dose-rate-dependence behavior is due to a delay of the incubation dose at which radiation-induced segregation effectively starts. Particle type and the presence of dislocations can accentuate this behavior. Our model predictions correlate with many experimental observations made over the years on radiation-induced segregation providing credence to the simulation results. The methodology presented in this study allows for a first-order prediction of the dose rate at which proxy irradiation experiments could be performed to approximate radiation-induced segregation behaviors seen in targeted irradiation conditions.

Data availability:
Data will be made available on request.

Effect of the presence of dislocations:
Through our examination of the dependence of RIS development on the dose rate as well as the type of incident particle type, we showed that in our model RIS initiates within nodes containing defect sinks. Another common type of defect sinks present within metallic systems is dislocations, which can show up in the form of an isolated line or loop and that can be organized or in random networks such as those present in grain boundaries and highly irradiated systems, respectively. To examine the effect of the presence of dislocations on RIS behavior, we performed simulations with a single edge dislocation inserted at a central node within the simulated volume and tested all previously tested dose rates.

Conclusions:
The methodology described here represents a preliminary step that can be used during experimental design to best reproduce RIS behaviors expected in different irradiation conditions. However, there are several opportunities for improvement within the model that would improve the accuracy of the performed simulations as well as improve the flexibility of the model. The current implementation of defect cluster migration was controlled through a flat rate term, with no consideration of the impact of cluster size or type on the rate of migration. Migration direction was also not controlled, which is less accurate for the migration of interstitial clusters, which tend to move in either 1D lines or 2D planes. This could be improved through the introduction of a diffusive model for cluster migration, or a more refined rate approach based on the results of experiments or molecular dynamics simulations. The requirement imposed on the model to maintain the number of lattice positions and atoms within the simulated volume is another limitation that could be improved through changes to the boundary conditions at the edges of the simulated volume, as well as changes to the way the dislocations were handled as defect sinks.

Declaration of Competing Interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Acknowledgements:
R.D. is supported by the United States (U.S.) Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Basic Energy Sciences (BES), Department of Materials Science and Engineering. D.V. and C.D. are supported through the Sandia Academic Alliance (SAA) Program. The phase-field framework is supported by the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies, an Office of Science user facility operated for the U.S. Department of Energy. Sandia National Laboratories is a multi-mission laboratory managed and operated by National Technology and Engineering Solutions of Sandia, LLC., a wholly owned subsidiary of Honeywell International, Inc., for the U.S. Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration under contract DE-NA0003525. This paper describes objective technical results and analysis. Any subjective views or opinions that might be expressed in the paper do not necessarily represent the views of the U.S. Department of Energy or the United States Government.