Title: Density-functional study of plutonium monoxide monohydride

Abstract: The structural, electronic, mechanical, optical, thermodynamic properties of plutonium monoxide monohydride (PuOH) are studied by density-functional calculations within the framework of LDA/GGA and LDA/GGA+U. From the total energy calculation, the lowest-energy crystal structure of PuOH is predicted to have space group                                                      F                                                                                             4                                  ¯                                                                                       3                            m                                                (No. 216). Within the LDA+U framework, the calculated lattice parameter of                                                      F                                                                                             4                                  ¯                                                                                       3                            m                                               -PuOH is in good agreement with the experimental value and the corresponding ground state is predicted to be an antiferromagnetic charge-transfer insulator. Furthermore, we investigate the bonding character of PuOH by analyzing the electron structure and find that there are a stronger Pu-O bond and a weaker Pu-H bond. The mechanical properties including the elastic constants, elastic moduli and Debye's temperature, and the optical properties including the reflectivity and absorption coefficient are also calculated. We then compute the phonon spectrum which verified the dynamical stability of                                                      F                                                                                             4                                  ¯                                                                                       3                            m                                               -PuOH. Some thermodynamic quantities such as the specific heat are evaluated. Finally we calculate the formation energy of PuOH, and the reaction energies for the oxidation of PuOH and PuOH-coated Pu, which are in reasonable agreement with the experimental values.

Optical properties:
Due to the radioactivity of plutonium compounds, contactless identification of various materials is very necessary, and obviously one of the useful tools is optical detection. Thus understanding the optical properties of PuOH is extremely important. Experimental data are not available now.

Summary:
Furthermore, the electronic structures of PuOH are analyzed to reveal the bonding character. It is found that there is a stronger Pu-O bond and a weaker Pu-H bond. Bader's charge analysis illustrate the Pu(III) cationic feature, which agrees with the experimental arguments. The optical properties of PuOH including the reflectivity and absorption coefficient are calculated and might be useful to the contactless identification of this compound.