Title: Kinetic parameters and luminescence properties of rare earth (Tb  Nd) doped and transition metal (Mn) doped/co-doped YAlO3 prepared via sol-gel method

Abstract: In this work, phosphor materials with the formula YAlO3 were synthesized via sol-gel method by using the stoichiometric amounts of yttrium nitrate and aluminum nitrate as base materials. The obtained phosphors were doped/co-doped with Tb3+, Nd3+ rare earth ions and Mn2+ transition metal ion. For evaluating the influence of the dopants, the grain size and morphology of the samples by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and the phase and crystallinity of the synthesized materials by X-ray diffraction (XRD) were investigated. Optical absorption spectra, photoluminescence (PL) and thermoluminescence (TL) were performed to determine a relationship the changing dopant on luminescence properties of YAlO3. Moreover, the kinetic parameters namely activation energy (E), order of kinetics (b) and frequency factor (s) of the synthesized pure and doped materials were calculated using Computerized Glow Curve Deconvolution (CGCD) and Peak Shape Method for a better understanding of the optical properties that change with the doping process. Strong green emission was detected in the sample doped with Mn2+ correspond to 4T1(G)→6A1(S) transition. As for YAlO3: Nd3+, characteristic emissions originated from 4G11/2 → 4I9/2 (∼423 nm), 4G9/2 → 4I9/2 (∼460 nm) and 4G7/2 → 4I9/2 (∼540 nm) transitions were seen. The optical band gap of undoped sample was calculated as 2.79 eV and depending on the presence of Nd3+ and Tb3+ dopant ions this value was decreased to the range 2.46–2.56 eV.

Data availability:
The authors do not have permission to share data.

Introduction:
In the recent years there has been an increasing interest in designing and developing of new efficient luminescent materials consist of the host and doped ion. The choice of the host lattice and suitable emitting ions plays an important role to achieve a qualified phosphor which has high application potential in the field of LED-lighting, luminescent devices and plasma display panels (PDPS).

Peak shape method:
This method is commonly used to determine thermal activation energy (E), frequency factor (s) and kinetic order (b) based on shape and geometrical parameters of the glow peak. These parameters are calculated using shape parameters:

DTA/TG analysis:
The TGA and DTA have been performed on synthesized sample by the sol-gel method to understand the thermal decomposition and phase transition of the material during heating.

Authorship contributions:
Please indicate the specific contributions made by each author (list the authors’ initials followed by their surnames, e.g., Y.L. Cheung). The name of each author must appear at least once in each of the three categories below.

Category 1:
Conception and design of study:Y. Tuncer Arslanlar, R. Kibar, A. Çetin. acquisition of data:S. Gökçe, İ.Ç. Keskin, M.İ. Katıanalysis and/or interpretation of data:İ.Ç. Keskin, M.İ. Katı, S. Gökçe, Y. Tuncer Arslanlar

Category 2:
Drafting the manuscript: S. Gökçe, M.İ. Katı, İ.Ç. Keskin. revising the manuscript critically for important intellectual content:_R. Kibar, A. Çetin

Category 3:
Approval of the version of the manuscript to be published (the names of all authors must be listed):Sibel GÖKÇE İlker Çetin KESKİN. Yasemin TUNCER ARSLANLAR. Mehmet İsmail KATI, Rana KİBAR, Ahmet ÇETİN

Declaration of competing interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.