Title: On synthesis  stability and superconductivity of ThNb2H12under pressure: ab-inito calculations

Abstract: Systematic study employing first-principle electronic structure method along with the evolutionary structure search algorithm as implemented in the universal structure predictor evolutionary Xtallography (USPEX) code has been carried out to look for the possibility of synthesising the ternary hydride (ThxNbyHz) from constituent's thorium, niobium and hydrogen. Our study suggests that the ternary hydride with formula ThNb2H12 will be globally stable above 12.5 GPa indicating the possibility of its formation from constituents Th, Nb, H and binary compounds of Th-H and Nb-H. Further, though the global stability of this compound is predicted to be beyond 12.5 GPa, it is metastable at 0 GPa. We have theoretically explored different formation routes to synthesize this compound. The zero-pressure monoclinic structure (Cm) of metastable ThNb2H12 undergoes a transformation to hexagonal structure (P6/mmm) at 3.5 GPa and this hexagonal structure (P6/mmm) transforms to other hexagonal type structure (P6/m) at 50 GPa. The high pressure structural sequence so predicted through static lattice calculations has been further substantiated by confirming the elastic and lattice dynamic stability of each structure in the pressure regime of their stability. Employing Allen–Dynes modified McMillan [P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B 12, 905 (1975)] formula along with the fixed Coulomb pseudopotential of 0.1 and calculated electron-phonon coupling parameter, the superconductive temperature has also been calculated for this compound. Our analysis indicates that this material will behave as superconductor with transition temperature (Tc) ∼ 25 K at 15 GPa, which, will reduce to 4 K upon further compression to 100 GPa. Our analysis on lattice thermal conductivity of this compound in P6/mmm phase, at 15 GPa, shows a significantly large anisotropy in conductivity tensor, especially at lower temperatures.

Data availability:
Data will be made available on request.

Author statement:
B D Sahoo: Methodology, Investigation, Writing-original draft. K D Joshi: Conceptualization, Writing-review & editing.

Declaration of competing interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.