Title: Synthesis and sintering of nanocrystalline thoria doped with CaO and MgO derived through oxalate-deagglomeration

Abstract: Thorium dioxide doped with oxides of magnesium and calcium was prepared from deagglomerated mixed oxalates. The influence of the dopant oxide concentration (0.1, 0.25 and 0.5mol% MO, M=Mg, Ca) on the powder properties was studied. The dependence of bulk density, specific surface area, X-ray crystallite size, residual carbon content and distribution of particle size on the dopant concentrations was investigated in detail. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) investigations revealed that the powders comprised cuboidal agglomerates with a nanocrystalline substructure (10nm). It was found that 0.5mol% calcia doped thoria exhibits better sinterability than pure thoria and magnesia doped thoria at a temperature as low as 1673K. Further, it was demonstrated for the first time that doping nanocrystalline thoria with calcia helps reduce the de-sintering phenomena.

Chemicals:
Nuclear grade thorium (IV) nitrate penta hydrate was obtained from M/s. Indian Rare Earths Ltd., Mumbai, India. Calcium nitrate (AR grade) was supplied by M/s. E. Merck (India) Ltd., Mumbai, India. Magnesium nitrate of purity better than 99% was obtained from M/s. Fluka Chemie AG, Buchs, Switzerland.

Characterization of starting materials, powders and compacts:
The geometric density of the green compacts was estimated from their dimensions and weights while the density of the sintered specimens was measured by using the liquid immersion method with dibutyl phthalate as the pycnometric liquid. The residual carbon present in the powders and sintered pellets was determined by heating these samples in a stream of oxygen. The carbon dioxide thus evolved was measured by using an infrared detector. In order to record their microstructure, the sintered pellets were ground and polished by using a standard ceramographic procedure and were thermally etched at their sintering temperature. The microstructure was recorded by using a scanning electron microscope (ESEM, Philips XL 30, The Netherlands).

Precipitation of the oxalate:
The precipitation carried out by adding oxalic acid to the mixed nitrate solution was found to yield a free flowing and less agglomerated thorium oxalate powder than those obtained by reversing the order of addition of the reactants. XRD analysis of the dried precipitate showed that it comprised nanocrystalline thorium oxalate. Further the precipitation reaction was not influenced by the presence of the dopant cation. Thus powders of both pure and doped thorium oxalate were identical in their characteristics.

Conclusions:
Complex surface phenomena are at play during the precipitation of cuboidal nanocrystallite oxalate agglomerates from solution where the role of calcia is found to be significant. The reduction in the triple line defects in the doped oxide powder suggests that the dopant species has a beneficial effect on the consolidation process even at temperatures far below the sintering temperature.