Title: Next generation fuel irradiation capability in the High Flux Reactor Petten

Abstract: This paper describes selected equipment and expertise on fuel irradiation testing at the High Flux Reactor (HFR) in Petten, The Netherlands. The reactor went critical in 1961 and holds an operating license up to at least 2015. While HFR has initially focused on Light Water Reactor fuel and materials, it also played a decisive role since the 1970s in the German High Temperature Reactor (HTR) development program. A variety of tests related to fast reactor development in Europe were carried out for next generation fuel and materials, in particular for Very High Temperature Reactor (V/HTR) fuel, fuel for closed fuel cycles (U–Pu and Th–U fuel cycle) and transmutation, as well as for other innovative fuel types. The HFR constitutes a significant European infrastructure tool for the development of next generation reactors. Experimental facilities addressed include V/HTR fuel tests, a coated particle irradiation rig, and tests on fast reactor, transmutation and thorium fuel. The rationales for these tests are given, results are provided and further work is outlined.

Introduction:
The High Flux Reactor Petten (HFR) is a valuable European infrastructure tool for testing of fuels and materials for next generation nuclear reactors. Depending on the size of the irradiation target, several highly standardized rig types can be used allowing for up to four thimbles to be irradiated simultaneously in a single irradiation position of which 17 are available. These rigs are externally cooled by HFR primary cooling water. The vertical position of individual thimbles can be remotely adjusted to center the target in the maximum flux position. The rigs can be rotated cycle to cycle to flatten radial fluence gradients. Temperatures are adjusted by suitable helium/neon blends. Wiring for instrumentation is also provided. Rigs are equipped with a top rig head containing valves, connectors and electric drives. Umbilical cords on top of the rig head route gas lines to gas supply and off-gas installations, and instrumentation cables to data acquisition systems. Rig heads and umbilical cords are pressurized with nitrogen to keep them dry. Specially designed filler elements in the irradiation position allow flux tailoring by variation of the cooling water volume around the rig.

V/HTR fuel element irradiations:
The individual pebbles were enclosed in graphite half shells for good thermal contact and the resulting cylindrical stack of graphite and fuel was inserted in a steel capsule. In-pile instrumentation included thermocouples, gamma scan wires and neutron fluence detector sets. This steel capsule was then inserted in a standard REFA-170 rig. The resulting gas gaps, graphite/steel capsule, and steel capsule/REFA-170 were tailored such that the resulting axial temperature profile was as flat as possible. Suitable blends of He and Ne in either gap were used for temperature adjustment. Due to massive failure of thermocouples after more than a year of high temperature operation, the experiment is currently on hold for a safety assessment. It is likely that the original burn-up target of 20% FIMA cannot be achieved. To avoid a situation where instrumentation issues would limit the achievable burn-up, JRC is involved in the development and testing of new thermocouples with improved durability under irradiation at high temperature. A further HTR fuel irradiation tests is being prepared with new fuel for the South African Pebble Bed Modular Reactor (PBMR). A complete design for an alternative HTR fuel type (‘compacts’) based on coated particles compacted with matrix graphite to a cylindrical rodlet is also available at the HFR.

V/HTR fuel particle irradiations:
The specimens are separated from the sample holder by a refractory metal (Mo alloy) foil. This foil will activate only weakly during irradiation and showed complete inertness towards sample holder material and specimens in high temperatures tests. The PYCASSO-I irradiation started on 19 April 2008 with very good agreement between calculated temperature profile and measurements. PYCASSO-I and -II will be irradiated for approximately six and nine calendar months, respectively. Suitable post-irradiation examinations are currently being evaluated and will include high precision metrology and microstructural evaluation.

Transmutation fuel irradiations:
Several irradiation tests were conducted within the European Experimental Feasibility of Targets for Transmutation (EFTTRA) network which advises EURATOM in matters related to transmutation fuel/targets in fast reactors or Accelerator Driven Systems. In the frame of the EURATOM Sixth Framework Program (FP6), the EUROTRANS project is currently preparing the HELIOS irradiation. This experiment will investigate the in-pile behavior of various uranium-free fuels and targets to determine the role of microstructure and temperature on gas release and fuel swelling up to high burn-ups. Due to the asymmetric thermal–mechanical load a standard design configuration had to be modified for a scheduled start-up in the end of 2008. Further irradiation tests (AMEX and CURIOS) are in the conceptual design phase. AMEX will demonstrate the feasibility of full transmutation (95–99%) of americium whereas CURIOS will focus on the behavior of curium targets. This type of fuel/target is expected to be used either in Fast Reactors or Accelerator Driven Systems for incineration of minor actinides from Light Water Reactors.

Thorium fuel:
Since uranium prices are soaring, thorium is gaining momentum internationally. For instance, India is actively exploring the thorium fuel cycle for power generation.

Conclusion:
Existing expertise and recent experimental activities at the HFR Petten support international R&D on next generation reactor concepts, fuel and fuel cycles. Over the years, the HFR has successfully maintained its reputation as a versatile infrastructure tool for nuclear technology. This includes fuel and material tests for fission and fusion, silicon doping, medical isotope production, neutron capture therapy, various neutron methods, etc. JRC and NRG installations share the Petten site and have created significant synergies for the benefit of commercial customers and for international R&D programs.