Title: Thermal decomposition of europium sulfates Eu2(SO4)3·8H2O and EuSO4

Abstract: Reactions of europium sulfates Eu2(SO4)3·8H2O and EuSO4 complete decomposition were studied by Simultaneous Thermal Analysis. It was revealed that one-step dehydratation of Eu2(SO4)3·8H2O crystallohydrate is accompanied by the formation of amorphous anhydrous europium sulfate Eu2(SO4)3. Crystallization of amorphous europium (III) sulfate occurs at 381.1°С (in argon) and 391.3°C (in air). The average enthalpy values for dehydratation reaction of Eu2(SO4)3·8H2O (ΔH° = 141.1kJ/mol), decomposition reactions of Eu2(SO4)3 (ΔH = 463.1kJ/mol), Eu2O2SO4 (ΔH = 378.4kJ/mol) and EuSO4 (ΔH = 124.1kJ/mol) were determined. The step process mechanisms of thermal decomposition of europium (III) sulfate in air and europium (II) sulfate in inert atmosphere were established and justified. The kinetic parameters of complete thermal decomposition of europium (III) sulfate octahydrate were calculated by Kissinger model. The standard enthalpies of compound formation were calculated using thermal effects and formation enthalpy data for binary compounds.

Introduction:
The processes appeared during thermal decomposition of europium sulfates, thermal stability of the compounds and europium valence state persistence was not explored by thermal analysis methods with application of sensitive equipment.

Methods and materials:
The crystallized solid product was separated from stock solution. Then, it was squeezed dry by filter paper and finally aged to reaching constant mass in desiccator with calcined silica gel on clock glass under room temperature. As the result, white shiny crystals of europium sulfate octahydrate (III) were obtained. Electron-microscopic analysis was carried out on electron microscope JEOL JSM-6510LV. X-ray energy-dispersive analyzer was used to register X-rays at element spectrum plotting in selected sample surface areas. The inaccuracy in element content determination was equal to±0.2%.

Discussion:
The second peak on DSC-curve corresponds to europium oxysulfate decomposition. The thermal and thermodynamic characteristics of europium oxysulfate decomposition are the same as those in case of oxysulfate decomposition which was formed as a result of europium (III) sulfate thermal decomposition. Also, the accuracy and repeatability of data carried out by applying DSC in comparison to dissolution calorimetry with use of Beckmann thermometer should not be overlooked. In reference with the above, the data collected in this research should be considered as more accurate.

Conclusion:
In this work, usage of simultaneous thermal analysis method allowed to calculate a considerable amount of energy and kinetic characteristics for a broad range of inter-related processes. The reasons of appearance of exothermic effects not accompanied with sample mass variation were elucidated by combining DSC, X-ray phase analysis and electron microscopy methods. Influence of atmosphere type on europium sulfates stability was also studied. The compounds which decompose with oxygen emission are more stable in air atmosphere. The inert atmosphere is conductive to europium divalent state stabilization in the intermediate compound formation at europium (II) sulfate thermal decomposition. For the europium (III) sulfate octahydrate dehydratation processes, the atmosphere type is insignificant. All data collected in present experiment are of fundamental importance, and, also, they can be useful for researchers who work with materials related to europium sulfates.