Title: Anisotropy study of hydrogen diffusion along different directions of Zr-2.5%Nb alloy pressure tube using neutron imaging

Abstract: Hydrogen diffusion studies in Zr-2.5% Nb alloy pressure tube material are important inputs for modeling localized embrittlement phenomenon manifested in pressure tubes. The microstructure of the pressure tube consists of lamellar α-Zr along with the β-phase present as stingers between two alpha laths as well as fine and coarse beta globules. This two-phase microstructure along with a vast difference in diffusivities for the alpha and beta phase necessitates the need for evaluating the diffusion parameters along the three orthogonal directions of the pressure tube. This work focuses on studying the diffusivity values for hydrogen in Zr-2.5%Nb alloy along different pressure tube directions in the temperature range is 250 ˚C -450 ˚C and also correlates it to the microstructure. FEM studies have also been carried out to identify the concentration region that is unaffected by stress imposed due to the presence of a hydride layer. Neutron radiography has been used to study diffusion along the axial, circumferential and radial directions of an as-received un-irradiated pressure tube. It was observed that the diffusion along the axial and circumferential directions is similar while it is slightly lower in the case of radial direction. A theoretical approach has also been followed for evaluating the diffusivity values for the α-Zr and β-Zr phases for the same temperature range.

Experimental:
Neutron radiography was used for diffusion studies while microstructural studies including SEM (Scanning Electron Microscopy), TEM (Transmission Electron Microscopy) and EBSD (Electron Back Scatter Diffraction) were carried out to explain the deviations observed. This section includes the details of sample preparation and the experiment conducted.

Analysis of diffusion profiles:
Where,

Discussion:
All the studies reported here have been carried out on a thermal neutron imaging set-up with 100 μm resolution and 45 μm pixel size. The current resolution might be optimum for studies on pressure tubes but for fuel clads where the thickness ranges between 380 and 900 μm better spatial resolution is required. For this opting for a 20–30 μm scintillator is suggested though that might result in degradation of hydrogen sensitivity obtained with current set-up. For having better hydrogen sensitivity with high spatial resolution (10–20 μm) the experiments have to be carried out on a cold neutron imaging beamline. The higher wavelength will reduce scattering and create better contrast between metal and hydride.

Declaration of Competing Interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Acknowledgments:
The author would like to thank Ms. Aishwarya Upadhyay, Ms Pushpalatha (MMD, BARC) for optical imaging and TEM studies and Mr. Baribaddla Ravi, (TPD, BARC) for beamline instrumentation.