Title: Effects of the high-pressure annealing process on the reflow phenomenon of copper interconnections for large scale integrated circuits

Abstract: The embedding effect of physical vapour deposited and electrochemical deposited copper films due to a high-pressure annealing process at 400 °C and 150 MPa was investigated in order to apply this high-pressure annealing process to dual-damascene fabrication technology for copper interconnections. The experimental results support a thermal elasticity and plasticity analysis using a finite-element method which predicts that additional external pressure acts to push copper films to the via holes. This analytical result agrees well with the hole filling performance under the high-pressure annealing of test element group specimens on which via holes of 0.28 μm in diameter and 1.2 μm in depth were previously formed. The residual stress left after lowering the temperature and pressure has no dependence on the additional external pressure and therefore does not reduce the reliability of the copper interconnections. However, the additional external pressure reduces the incremental creep strain of copper during the heating and holding step and reduces the stress transition point during the cooling step. This indicates that the additional external pressure on annealing at approximately 400 °C is effective for the perfect filling of copper into via holes without minute voids and in suppressing the siphoning phenomenon in copper from via holes.

Filling performance:
Parts of the TEG specimens were also examined by cross-sectional secondary ion micrograph (SIM) in order to estimate the filling level of Cu.

Stress condition of Cu interconnections:
If the as-deposited Cu films were reheated at normal-pressure, they can scarcely be embedded. Although approximately 60% of the Cu would initially have been embedded, a siphoning phenomenon occurs and the embedded Cu is siphoned back out. This phenomenon is thought to be due to stress migration (SM) in the Cu and is a consequence of the residual stress distribution in the Cu films at the cooling step. The driving force for the SM is the tensile stress that occurs in the Cu films during the cooling process.

Conclusions:
The high-pressure annealing treatment accelerates the embedding and reduces the residual tensile stress of Cu interconnections. From these results, it can be concluded that the high-pressure annealing treatment is effective for the perfect filling of Cu interconnections into via holes and in suppressing the siphoning phenomenon in Cu interconnections from via holes.