Title: Fabrication and characterisation of Al2O3 porous bodies by hot isostatic pressing

Abstract: Porous ceramic filters have applications in many industrial areas. The major requirements for filter materials are high porosity, high mechanical strength and uniform pore size. However, conventional fabrication methods cannot produce materials with both high porosity and high strength, since an increase in porosity usually results in a decrease in strength. A method has been reported to obtain porous materials of high strength and high porosity by hot isostatic pressing (HIP), because the high pressurised gas prevents shrinkage of open pores and enhances bridging of particles.                   In the present study several commercial Al2O3 starting powders were uniaxially and isostatically pressed and the green compacts were directly treated under different HIP conditions. The microstructure (grain size and shape, density and pore size distribution) of the HIP products was evaluated and then compared to that of the traditionally sintered ones in order to investigate the influence of starting powder characteristics, forming process and thermal treatment parameters on the characteristics of the final materials. © 1997 Elsevier Science S.A.

Experimental procedures:
The as-received powders were uniaxially pressed at a pressure of 50 MPa to make pellets of about 10 mm of diameter and 6 mm thick. The pellets were then cold isostatically pressed at 50 MPa×1 min or 100 MPa×1 min in order to evaluate the influence of the forming pressure on the final material. The green density was measured by the weight/volume ratio. Density, porosity and pore size distribution of HIP and sintered materials were determined by mercury porosimeter (Macropore 120 and Porosimeter 2000, Carlo Erba). The internal structure of sintered and HIP samples was analysed by scanning electron microscopy on fracture surfaces.

Effect of heat treatment conditions on porosity and microstructure:
The relative density of the pressureless sintered samples was generally higher than that of the HIP ones, since during the pressureless sintering process there is no obstacle to the shrinkage which is prevented in the HIP treatment by the high pressurised gas.

Conclusions:
The HIP treatment at 1250 °C gives rise to poorly developed bridges between particles, while at 1300 °C the process leads to the formation of more solid necks, together with increasing bulk density and material grain size. The HIP process produces narrower pore size distribution and finer grain size than pressureless sintering, even if density, pore and grain size of the final products depend on grain size, sinterability and texture of the green bodies, all depending on grain size, shape and specific surface area of the starting powders. Powders of very fine particle size give rise to very small sized green porosity which is insensitive to the effect of the high pressurised gas. The widely different strength values (from ∼70 to ∼200 MPa) are mainly influenced by the powder characteristics, and depend slightly on the forming pressure: increase of forming pressure causes the reduction of flaws in the bulk material and promotes the formation of bridges between grains. For high strength materials, powders with grain size and shape which give rise to very fine green porosity or to a structure rich in opening space among the bridges, have to be avoided. Further activities are in progress in order to correlate the material characteristics to the gas permeability.