Title: Effect of substrate rotation on structure  hardness and adhesion of magnetron sputtered TiB2 coating on high speed steel

Abstract: Titanium diboride (TiB2) coatings have been deposited on stationary and rotating high speed steel substrates by magnetron sputtering of a TiB2 target. The structure and hardness of the coatings and the coating–substrate adhesion have been investigated by X-ray diffraction, field emission scanning electron microscopy, nanoindentation and microscratch tests. The results show that substrate rotation has a significant effect on these structural and properties features. It was found that, with substrate rotation, the TiB2 coating exhibits a columnar structure with random orientation and relatively low hardness and coating–substrate adhesion. On the other hand, without substrate rotation, the TiB2 coating shows a strong (001) texture with dense, equiaxed grain structure. The hardness and coating–substrate adhesion of the coatings deposited on stationary substrates are much higher than those deposited on rotating substrates. The observed phenomena are discussed in terms of the energy of the sputtered flux, which varies with the substrate–target distance during deposition.

Coating–substrate adhesion:
The higher adhesion strength found for the coatings on stationary substrates could again be explained by the higher adatom energy as a result of the shorter substrate–target distance. This would enhance adatom mobility in the growing coating and lead to improved coating–substrate interaction during the deposition process. The improved coating density and hardness also help to increase the critical load for coating failure during the scratch test. It is noted that, since no substrate pretreatment was used, the microscratch test evaluates mainly the substrate adhesion and the coating structure plays only a minor role. In order to evaluate the real structural influence, it is necessary to use a state-of-the-art substrate pretreatment in further study.