Title: The impact toughness characteristics of steel wire-reinforced polymer composites

Abstract: In this paper, the impact toughness properties of fine steel wire-reinforced polymer matrix composites is presented and discussed. Strips of the polymer composite is attached on to a standard Charpy V-notch impact specimen. Temperature influences, in the range from cryogenic (−190°C) to ambient (30°C) on the impact toughness properties of the polymer composites are highlighted in light of energy absorbed and macroscopic fracture behavior of the dynamically deformed samples.

Introduction:
A comprehensive study of the ability of the polymer matrix composite to withstand stresses in the presence of a defect or flaw is the fundamental basis of fracture mechanics. Under dynamic loading conditions the resistance of the polymer–metal wire composite to fracture in the presence of a flaw is its impact toughness. In this study, the fracture toughness of an impact specimen having a 45 degree V-notch of 2 mm depth and a root radius of 0.2 mm is quantified in terms of the energy absorbed by the material upon dynamic loading, achieved from impact by a falling pendulum, and to catastrophic failure. In the presence of a well-defined notch, the crack growth toughness of the material is dependent on the conjoint and mutually interactive influences of the following: (a) modifications in material composition to minimize segregation, and innovative and novel processing (primary and secondary) techniques to minimize processing-related defects; (b) the deformation characteristics of the microstructure. For ductile solids the occurrence of localized deformation at and around the vicinity of the crack tip coupled with a microstructure which promotes crack tip blunting and bifurcation is beneficial to improving impact toughness; (c) thick sections conforming to plane strain condition have lower critical fracture toughness than thin sections conforming to requirements of plane stress; (d) increasing the rate of loading or strain rate, has a detrimental influence on toughness; and (e) decreasing the test temperature reduces both strength and toughness.

Test specimen, material and procedures:
The adhesive chosen was a two-part epoxy (type: J.B. Weld) which is widely used for purposes of gluing metal-onto-metal. The steel wire-reinforced polymer composite strips were adhered to the base metal on the side containing the notch. Problems associated with pull-out of the steel wires from the soft polymer matrix were obviated by curing the polymer/steel wire composite specimen in an oven so as to facilitate proper bonding of the reinforcement to the soft polymer matrix. A notch was carefully machined in the composite to maintain continuity with the notch in the base material. For this purpose a bench grinder was used to grind the notch at an angle of 45° with the edge of the grinding disc. The base material chosen was a low strength steel (type: carbon steel 1018 – cold finished).

Results and discussion:
The eight steel wires-reinforced polymer composite specimen exhibited limited plastic deformation at the ambient temperature. However, at the cryogenic temperatures (−70°C and −190°C) ductility was limited at both the macroscopic and microscopic levels and aided by failure of the glue and decohesion of the steel wire-reinforced polymer composite strip from the base 1018-CF material. For the 16 steel wire composite plastic deformation was evident at ambient temperature (30°C). At the lower test temperatures (−70°C and −190°C) failure of the 16 steel wire reinforced matrix occurred primarily through failure of the glue and separation of the polymer composite strip from the base material. A visual comparison of the fracture morphology, at the different temperatures, of the eight wire and 16 steel wire-reinforced polymer matrix revealed a distinct change in macroscopic fracture mode from: (a) ductile with total separation and failure of both the polymer–steel wire composite and the base material, to (b) predominantly brittle with failure of the base material and decohesion of the polymer matrix composite strip from the base material at the cryogenic temperatures.

Conclusions:
The results of this study on an experimental evaluation of the impact toughness properties of steel wire-reinforced polymer matrix provides the following observations. (a) The lower bound in ductile-to-brittle transition temperature (DBTT) was for the base material (steel 1018-CF) and the composite samples (base material+steel wires-reinforced polymer strip) determined to be around 25°C. This implies that below this temperature failure of both the base material (carbon steel 1018-CF) and that of the composite samples occurs in a brittle mode. At temperatures above the transition temperature the composite samples shows macroscopic features reminiscent of locally ductile failure. (b) An overall transition temperature could not be established for the composite sample. This required the upper boundary of the impact toughness curve to be known, that is the impact properties of both the base material and the composite samples at temperatures higher than the maximum temperature used in this study (30°C). (c) The impact toughness of the polymer composites and the base material degraded with a decrease in test temperature. For polymer Type A, the toughness of the 16 steel wire-reinforced polymer matrix was inferior to the impact toughness of the eight steel wire-reinforced polymer matrix at 0°C and 30°C with no difference at the lowest temperature (−190°C). No appreciable difference was detected for polymer Type B over the range of temperatures tested.

Acknowledgements:
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support of The University of Akron (Akron, OH, USA) and State of Ohio, Board of Regents (Columbus, OH, USA). The polymer composite samples used in this investigation were provided by Goodyear Tire and Rubber (Program Monitor: Dr. A. Prakash).