Title: Co-solvent effect on conductivity of composite electrolytes comprising polyethylene oxide and polytetramethylene glycol-based waterborne polyurethane via a mixture design approach

Abstract: The co-solvent effect of the three solvents, ethlyene carbonate (EC), propylene carbonate (PC), and diethylene carbonate (DEC) on the composite electrolytes (CE) consisting of polyethylene oxide (PEO) and polytetramethlyene glycol-based waterborne polyurethane [WPU(PTMG)] was investigated by using a mixture design approach. The conductivity data at temperatures of 5, 25, 45 and 65°C were fitted by employing a forward stepwise regression procedure. Unfortunately, as a result of negligible conductivity of EC at T                      m (∼40°C), the test statistics gave values for R                      2                      adj as 0.69 and 0.71 for the regression equations at 5 and 25°C, respectively. The regression equations at 45 and 65°C were used to construct contour plots which facilitated the comparison of synergistic/antagonistic effects among the selected solvents. Molecular simulation was also made on the basis of the radius distribution function. The results obtained are used to interpret the results through contour plots and also using the physical properties of the solvents.

Synthesis of waterborne polyurethane (WPU):
Double distilled water (≈232 g) was then added to the neutralized PU anionmer solutions at an agitation rate and water addition rate of 350 rpm and 2.0 ml/min, respectively. An aqueous dispersion of ∼30 wt.% solids was obtained on removal of acetone by rotary vacuum evaporation.

Conductivity measurement:
The conductivities of the composite electrolytes were measured via impedance analysis with an electrochemical cell consisting of the electrolyte film sandwiched between two blocks of stainless steel, sealed with an O-ring in a tube and covered with a heating/cooling water circulation jacket. Temperature of the cell was controlled using a thermostat (Haake D8 and G) and calibrated using PT-100 thermocouple. The impedance analysis was performed from 100 kHz to 0.1 Hz by using CMS300 EIS system (Gamry Instruments, USA) with an SR810 DSP lock-in amplifier (Standford Research Systems, USA) under an oscillation potential of 10 mV.

Acknowledgements:
The financial support of this work sponsored by National Science Council and Chinese Petroleum Company of Taiwan under contract numbers, NSC 88-2214-E-006-026 and NSC 88-CPC-E-006-032, respectively, is gratefully acknowledged. The authors also thank Dr. A. Gopalan for his contribution to this revised manuscript.