Title: Amoxicillin embedded in cellulose acetate-poly (vinyl pyrrolidone) fibers prepared by coaxial electrospinning: Preparation and characterization

Abstract: The optimal conditions for the preparation of a composite material of fibers of cellulose acetate (CA), poly (vinyl pyrrolidone) (PVP), containing amoxicillin (Amoxi) within the fiber, CA/PVP-Amoxi/CA, were found. The geometrical, physical–chemical and thermal properties of the fibrous membranes containing CA, PVP and amoxicillin were characterized using FTIR spectroscopy, thermal analysis, SEM and TEM. Also, mechanical characterization of the fibers showed that the tensile strength of the membrane is not affected by the presence of amoxicillin within the fiber as compared with fibers without amoxicillin; however, the rigidity of the membrane decreases by approximately 45%. The effect of the pH on the release rate of amoxicillin was also studied. The amount of amoxicillin release and the k value increased with an increasing pH, from 61% for a pH 3.0 to 79% at pH 7.2, with k values of 0.2120 and 0.2609 respectively. An empirical model for the amoxicillin release was studied; the release of amoxicillin is assumed to obey a diffusion mechanism. These composite materials are recommended for solving the problem of possible loss of drug during the process of entrapment in the matrix with potential local application in biological media to treat dental or skin infections.

Highlights:
► We prepared CA/PVP-Amoxi/CA membrane by coaxial electrospinning. ► We studied the membrane by SEM, TEM, FT-IR, thermal and mechanically. ► The amoxicillin in the membrane is effectively released. ► Amoxicillin cumulative release reached 79% at pH 7.2 and 61% at pH 3.0.

Introduction:
However, the loading of amoxicillin in the fibers has certain problems because it was not possible to know the exact amount of amoxicillin incorporated into the fibers to be able to estimate the percentage of amoxicillin release (%). In this work we present the feasibility of producing a fibrous composite membrane via coaxial electrospinning using both the CA and the PVP, with the amoxicillin embedded within the PVP, also, determination of the optimal conditions for the preparation, and the characterization of the geometrical, physical–chemical and mechanical properties using SEM, TEM, FTIR, thermal, mechanical, as well as the evaluation of the release rate of amoxicillin using the model proposed by Ritger and Peppas, at both pH 3 and 7.2. This study aims to develop materials that will allow the solution of problems of possible loss of drug during the tedious process of entrapment in the matrix.

FTIR characterization:
Dried membranes were mixed with KBr powder and pelletized. The IR characterizations were performed using a Perkin–Elmer Spectrum GX FTIR spectrometer.

TEM imaging:
For the transmission electron microscopy imaging (TEM), a sample of the membrane was placed on a carbon film supported by a copper grid in order to obtain electron micrographs in a JEOL 2010F Electron Microscope.