Title: Measurement of proton and oxide ion fluxes in a working Y-doped BaCeO3 SOFC

Abstract: Y-doped BaCeO3 (BCY), a solid state ion conductor which exhibits mixed proton and oxide ion conductivity under some conditions, was used as an electrolyte in a solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC). The conductivities of 10% and 25% Y-doped BaCeO3 (BCY10 and BCY25) were measured under a single gas atmosphere of 5% hydrogen in argon (5% H2/Ar), air and pure argon (Ar). Furthermore, a dual-chamber SOFC reactor was used to investigate the conductivities of the BCY10 and BCY25 electrolytes under fuel cell conditions, i.e., 5% hydrogen in argon at the anode with air at the cathode. The performance of BCY-based SOFC with Pt electrodes was measured over a temperature range of 500–800 °C using a galvanostat/potentiostat. Both anode and cathode product stream compositions were analysed using a gas chromatograph and a hygrometer. A material balance for the system was performed in order to estimate proton and oxygen ion fluxes across the electrolyte. Water transport across the electrolyte in the absence of an external circuit was also studied.

Introduction:
The objective of this work is to investigate the effect of the mole fraction of Y dopant on the conduction properties of this electrolyte material and the degree of mixed proton and oxide ion conductivity in terms of its proton and oxide ion transport numbers. In this paper, the total conductivities of BCY10 and BCY25 in various gas atmospheres including hydrogen-containing, oxygen-containing and pure argon were measured using an AC impedance analyser. In addition, the proton and oxide ion transport numbers were estimated by measuring the amount of hydrogen consumed at the anode and water produced at the cathode simultaneously during fuel cell operation. Overall material balance and basic electrochemical calculations provided an accurate value of ionic transport numbers.

Conductivity measurements:
The electrolyte pellet was placed into a single chamber reactor. The reactor was installed into a horizontal split tube furnace (Vecstar) and the cell was connected with a frequency response analyser (Newton's 4th 1700 PSIMEREIQ, Amel) in order to measure the AC impedance spectra across the electrolyte. The feed flow rate of 100 ml/min at 20 °C, 1 atm was fed to the reactor. AC current with 100 mV amplitude was applied to the cell at open circuit conditions with a frequency sweep from 1 MHz to 1 Hz. The impedance spectra were recorded several times until similar results in each frequency scan loop were obtained.

Conclusion:
In this work, the conductivities of BCY10 and BCY25 samples prepared by the sol gel method were investigated in terms of the total electrolyte conductivity and proton and oxide ion transport numbers. A single phase of BCY10 was obtained while the BCY25 sample contained mixed phases of BCY and YDC. Comparisons of the conductivity and proton and oxide-ion transport numbers of BCY10 and BCY25 were performed. BCY25 exhibited mixed proton and oxide ion conductivity at temperatures higher than 550 °C. Over the entire temperature range of 500–750 °C BCY10 exhibited predominant proton conduction with mixed conduction above 750 °C. The more rapid increase with respect to temperature in the oxide ion transport number of BCY25, in comparison with BCY10, may be because of an increase in the amount of Y dopant and/or the presence of a predominant oxide ion conductor, YDC, in this sample. Water permeation through both BCY10 and BCY25 could be observed. This confirms the presence of mixed proton and oxide ion conduction in these materials. A previous model to describe water permeation did not fit well with the experimental results possibly because the rate determining step for water permeation is not solid state transport here.