Title: Generation of ceramic–ceramic layered composite microstructures using electrohydrodynamic co-axial flow

Abstract: In this work different loading volumes (10 and 20vol.%) of alumina and zirconia were suspended in selected liquid carriers to prepare suspensions. These suspensions were infused through inner and outer capillaries of a co-axial nozzle arrangement, which was then subjected to an electric field. The rate at which these suspensions were perfused (flow rate) and the applied voltage was varied during the experiments. Under optimal conditions, stable cone and jet formation was achieved for selected co-flowing suspensions which subsequently breaks-up into ceramic–ceramic composite droplets. Thus, droplets containing alumina and zirconia were produced and the resulting relics were collected on quartz substrates. These were sintered at 1200°C and analysed by optical and scanning electron microscopy. The relic size increased as a function of the volume loading and layered encapsulation (shown using SEM and EDX) of alumina by zirconia and vice-versa, using this method, is achievable.

Suspensions characterization:
The density, surface tension, viscosity, electrical conductivity and relative permittivity of the suspensions were measured and were calibrated against glycerol and olive oil, which were used as reference points. The densities of the samples were estimated using a standard density bottle. Surface tension was measured using a Kruss Tensiometer K9 (Krüs GmbH, Hamburg, Germany). Viscosity was measured using a Visco-Easy Rotational viscometer. Electrical conductivity was assessed using a HACH SensION ™ 156 probe (Camlab Ltd., Cambridge, UK). Relative permittivity was measured using the standard capacitance method. All measurements were performed at the ambient temperature.

Characterization:
Droplets relics were investigated before and after heat treatment using optical microscopy. Furthermore, the sintered relics were investigated by JEOL JSM 3600 scanning electron microscopy. Samples were coated with a thin layer of carbon before examination.

Acknowledgements:
The authors wish to thank the Leverhulme Trust (Grant: F/07 134/BL) and EPSRC (EP/E045839) for supporting this work. They would also like to thank the Archaeology Department (UCL) for the use of their electron microscopes.