Title: Effect of Li2O–B2O3–SiO2 glass on Li+ diffusion and dendrite resistance of Li6.1Ga0.3La3Zr2O12 solid-state electrolyte

Abstract: Garnet-type Li7La3Zr2O12 is currently being extensively studied as a potential candidate to replace the conventional liquid electrolytes due to prominent ionic conductivity and structural stability. The microstructure is the one of the important factor to obtain the electrochemical performances, resulting from Li-ion kinetics, local current density. Herein, we synthesize the Li6.1Ga0.3La3Zr2O12 with various Li2O–B2O3–SiO2 concentration (1, 3, 5, and 10 wt%) as a glass additive and investigate the effect on the crystallization, relative density, lithium ion conductivity and critical current density. Our findings reveal that proper amount of Li2O–B2O3–SiO2 could enhance the sinterability, thus enabling facile and continuous lithium ion conduction with suppressing propagation of Li dendrite through the pores. Therefore, it can be concluded that appropriate concentration of Li2O–B2O3–SiO2 can be regarded as a breakthrough to construct better solid electrolyte for all-solid-state lithium ion batteries.

Synthesis of Ga-LLZO, LBS powders:
After the synthesis process, the resulting LBS and LGLZO powder were ball milled at a rotational speed of 250 rpm for a duration of 10 min. Subsequently, the powdered samples were compressed into pellets under a pressure of 500 MPa. The pellets were then sintered in an air atmosphere at a temperature of 1150 °C for 6 h. The heating rate during the sintering process was set at 5 °C/min. Samples were prepared by varying the amount added (0, 1, 3, 5 and 10 wt%) in accordance with the sintering conditions of 1150 °C for 6 h.

Electrochemical performance evaluation:
Before assembling the cells, the samples were polished to remove surface contamination. Room temperature electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted using AC impedance analysis (EC-lab, SP-200) with a frequency range of 1 Hz–7 MHz and a signal amplitude of 60 mV. To prevent the movement of lithium ions, Au electrodes were deposited on both surfaces of the pellets. Symmetric cells were assembled to assess the critical current density (CCD) and cycling performance. In our experiments, Li/LGLZO-LBS/Li symmetric cells were constructed inside an argon-filled glove box. Thin lithium metal sheets were placed at the center of both sides of the samples, and the symmetric cell was heated at 180 °C for 2 h to minimize the interface resistance between the lithium metal and the samples.

Declaration of competing interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.