Title: Thermal and mechanical properties of cordierite  mullite and steatite produced by plasma spraying

Abstract: Cordierite, mullite and steatite are silicate materials widely used in the ceramics industry. There is, however, only sparse information on their application in plasma spraying and properties of sprayed materials. Plasma sprayed deposits of cordierite, mullite and steatite contain amorphous phases as the result of rapid cooling of molten particles. The amorphous phase has a significant influence on physical properties, especially in connection with heat treatment.                   This article deals with phase changes of cordierite, mullite and steatite, resulting from plasma deposition. Special attention is paid to amorphous phase crystallization in subsequent heat treatment.                   Plasma sprayed deposits were produced using a water stabilized plasma torch WSP®. The processes taking place in the deposits were examined primarily by differential thermal analysis (DTA), thermal dilatometry (TMA) and X-ray diffraction (XRD). These measurements were complemented by the determination of physical properties (namely, density, Young’s modulus and strength) and morphological observations. Important thermal characteristics like crystallization temperature and the coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) of all materials were determined.

Introduction:
Plasma spraying of cordierite, mullite and steatite is only sparsely mentioned in literature and characteristics of the sprayed materials are often inadequate.

Experimental details:
The crystallization process is usually exhibited on the DTA curve as a strong, sharp peak and on the dilatometric curve as intensive shrinkage on the order of tenths to units of percentage. For all materials studied, full crystallization occurred during the first heating; in subsequent heating cycles, no crystallization response was detected. TMA and DTA measurements enabled us to distinguish processes in the material by their thermal response. Mullite powder used as a sample for DTA did not sinter or fuse with the Pt cup even upon second heating, in contrast to cordierite and steatite, which were fully compacted after removal. The DTA results were used for selection of maximum temperatures for TMA, to avoid fusing the sample and dilatometry probe. Phase composition of the feedstock and the plasma sprayed deposits was examined by X-ray diffraction. A Siemens D500 diffractometer (Siemens, Germany) was used; filtered Co radiation was selected for the majority of the samples. The morphology of the deposits was studied by scanning electron microscopy SEM (Camscan 4DV, UK).

Cordierite:
The phase composition of the feedstock was cordierite (JCPDS 13-294). Deposits were composed mostly of an amorphous phase with only traces of cordierite. Traces of another crystalline phase were also observed, but could not be identified. Upon heating, the amorphous phase crystallizes to indialite (JCPDS 48-1600). The original crystallographic system of cordierite, i.e., orthorhombic, changed to hexagonal one of indialite.

Mullite:
The amorphous mullite phase in the deposit crystallized upon heating into mullite again, with the same orthorhombic system.

Steatite:
The phase formed by crystallization of the amorphous deposit is the same as that of the feedstock material, with an identical crystallographic system (orthorhombic).

Mechanical properties:
Overall, the magnitudes of moduli and strengths are relatively small compared to sintered ceramics, however, the strain tolerance of plasma sprayed deposits is significantly higher (strain to fracture of about 0.001 was observed in all materials). Increased spraying distance resulted in a slightly decreased modulus and strength. The heat treatment results in a remarkable increase in the modulus of cordierite deposits and a small increase in strength. In the case of mullite deposits, there was a small decrease in the modulus and a greater decrease in strength. The values still fall in a range commonly observed in plasma sprayed ceramics. It can be concluded that these materials retain their structural integrity and thus are usable even after exposure to the crystallization temperature.

Acknowledgements:
Financial support from the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic under grant no. 106/03/0710 is thankfully acknowledged.