Title: Crystallization kinetics of glass–ceramics prepared from high-carbon ferrochromium slag

Abstract: Glass-ceramics were successfully prepared from high-carbon ferrochromium slag (HCFS), and the optimum heat-treatment conditions were determined by analysis of the crystallization kinetics. The parent glass is first prepared in five different ratios of HCFS to waste glass (R(H/W)), then heat-treated separately at five heating rates (α) and monitored by DSC. As the value of R(H/W) increases from 0.60 to 1.67, the crystallization activation energy (Ec) decreases from 253.41 to 183.52kJ/mol. The nucleation and crystallization temperatures decrease from 641.7 to 612.2°C, and 822.8–814.7°C, respectively, and both are lower than that of ordinary metallurgy slag. These results indicate that using HCFS to produce glass-ceramics both facilitates its production and saves energy. The crystallization index (n) increases with increasing R(H/W), and when n exceeds 2.32, all of the parent glass samples with different R(H/W) crystallize as bulk crystallization. The crystallization index (n) increases as the heating rate α decreases from 25 to 5°C/min, with a maximum value of n (5.94) observed when α is 5°C/min. These conditions produce the largest aspect ratio and highest density of the crystal grain in the glass-ceramics. Our results show the optimal HCFS-based glass-ceramics were obtained with a R(H/W) of 1.29 and a 5°C/min heating rate; under those conditions, the parent glass nucleates and crystalizes at 627.1 and 820.9°C, respectively.

Sample preparation:
Based on the analysis of the DSC data, the parent glass underwent a two-step process for the transformation to the glass-ceramics. The first stage is a low temperature heat-treatment to obtain a high density of nuclei seeds throughout the interior of the parent glass, and a higher temperature second step for the crystallization of nuclei seeds, which finally prepares the glass-ceramics.

Characterization and measurements:
The chemical compositions of the raw materials were determined by wavelength dispersive X-ray fluorescence (XRF, Shimadzu-XRF-1800). Microstructural characterizations of the glass-ceramic samples were performed by a MLA250 scanning electron microscope (SEM) with an energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS) attachment. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC, Model STA 4090, NETZSCH-Gerätebau GmbH, Selb, Germany) was used to determine the non-isothermal crystallization kinetics of the parent glass.

Crystallization activation energy calculation:
The thermal stability only reveals the trend of crystallization of the parent glass; therefore, to investigate the crystallization mechanism of the parent glass, an analysis of crystallization kinetics was carried out, and the crystallization activation energy and crystallization index of the parent glass were subsequently calculated.