Title: Design and performance benchmark of various architectures of a piezoelectric bimetallic strip heat engine

Abstract: This paper deals with an investigation of a thermal energy harvester based on the coupling of a piezoelectric membrane and a bimetallic strip heat engine. The general working principle of the device consists of a double conversion mechanism: the thermal energy is first converted into mechanical energy by means of a bimetallic strip, then the mechanical energy is converted into electricity with a piezoelectric membrane. This paper deals with the study and optimization of the harvester’s design. First, the piezoelectric membrane configuration is studied to find the most efficient way to convert mechanical energy into electricity. A benchmark of various piezoelectric materials is then presented to point out the most efficient materials. Finally, our study focuses on the bimetallic strip’s properties: the effect of its dimensions of its thermal hysteresis on the harvester’s performances are studied and compared. Thanks to these different steps, we were able to point out the best configuration to convert efficiently thermal heat flux into electricity.

Introduction:
This paper presents an optimization work of a piezoelectric bimetallic strip heat engine in order to find the most efficient harvester’s design. The first part of this article is devoted to the explanation of the device’s working principle. In the second part, the main guidelines to find the most efficient design are exposed and experimentally tested and validated. The last part is about the interpretation and discussions of the previous experiments.

Device general working principle:
The thermal energy harvester reported in this paper is based on a double steps conversion mechanism of wasted heat flux into usable electricity. This is possible thanks to a bimetallic strip heat engine converting thermal energy into mechanical energy by exploiting the thermo-mechanical bistability of bimetal membranes made of two materials having a mismatch of their coefficients of thermal expansion. To convert the kinetic energy released by the snapping bimetals, the bistable membrane is coupled with a piezoelectric transducer. That way, each time the bimetal snaps up, it impacts the piezoelectric membrane and the piezoelectric transducers oscillates at its resonance frequency. At the opposite, when the bimetal snaps down, it releases the piezoelectric transducer allowing it to vibrate freely. Consequently, during these two phases, the bimetal mechanical energy is converted into electricity.

Conclusion:
This paper established a complete benchmark of the thermal energy harvester based on the use of bimetallic strip heat engines and piezoelectric transducers. Each component of the harvester was studied separately and experimental tests were carried out on it to observe its impact and influence on the available electrical power. From this study, one configuration stood out as presenting the best compromise between the different aspects and constraints. Furthermore, future ways of improvements were presented in regards of the used bimetallic strips.

Acknowledgment:
This work was funded by the Fonds Unique Interministériel (FUI), through the HEATec project.