Title: Work-hardenable TiZr-based multilayered bulk metallic glass composites through the solid solution strengthening in ex-situ Ti layers

Abstract: To circumvent the trade-off with plasticity and strength, a series of TiZr-based controllable multilayered bulk metallic glass composites (ML-BMGCs), with ex-situ Ti layers and glassy matrix containing precipitated dendrites distribution in an alternate, was fabricated by the hybrid strategy with in-situ and ex-situ. ML-BMGCs exhibit not only enhanced plasticity from 1±0.2% to 8.4±0.2% but also improved the fracture strength from 1643±15 MPa to 1956±20 MPa under compression. The improved strength is attributed to that the solid solution strengthen of Zr in the ex-situ Ti layers by Zr element diffusion from glassy matrix to them is increasing with Zr addition. Ti layers and the in-situ dendrites create a strong barrier for the shear band propagation and generate multiplies of the shear band after solid solution strengthening, thereby which together with the pronouncedly plastic deformation of Ti layers, greatly improves the plastic deformation capacity.

Results and discussion:
When heating to the melt temperature, the dissolution of Ti results in the composition variation in glassy melts. In order to minimize the system free energy, the elements in the melts have to rearranged. Cu, Ni and Be remain almost in the melts, which is conducive to decreasing the system free energy and stabilizing the melts. However, the excess of Zr elements is bad for minimizing the system free energy to form glassy phase and Zr elements can dissolve infinitely into hcp-Ti or bcc-Ti. Thus, the excessive Zr elements either enrich in the dendrites or diffuse into the pure Ti layers. The Zr accumulation in the Ti layers is increasing gradually with increasing Zr, which causes the solid solution strengthening of Zr in Ti layers increasing. The Vickers hardness in the Ti layers for ML-BMGCs increasing with adding Zr loudly demonstrates this conclusion. Consequently, the solid solution strengthening of Zr in Ti layers increasing with Zr addition is responsible for the yield strength, fracture strength and work hardening exponent increasing.

Declaration of Competing Interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.