Title: Broadband NIR emission at 1.53 μm in trivalent erbium ions doped SrO-Al2O3-B2O3-BaCl2-10TeO2 glasses for optical fiber and NIR laser applications

Abstract: A new series of Er3+ ions doped Oxy Chloro Boro Tellurite glasses were prepared by melt-quenching method. Various spectroscopic properties were determined from absorption, excitation and photo-luminescence spectra. The Judd-Ofelt intensity parameters Ωλ(λ=2,4,6) were estimated based on absorption spectra. A strong luminescence band was observed at 1536nm under the excitation wavelength of 522nm. The gain coefficient of 1.53μm emission was estimated to probe the utility of glasses in broad band amplification technology. Inokuti-Hirayama model was employed to decay curves, to comprehend the nature of energy transfer between erbium ions. The stimulated emission cross-sections (σsec), branching ratios (βR), quantum efficiencies (η%) and gain cross-section (σsecxτR) for Er3+ ions doped OCBT glasses were evaluated and compared with other reported glass samples. Based on the highest stimulated emission cross-section, branching ratios, quantum efficiencies and gain cross-sections, it is suggested that 1mol% of Er3+ ions doped OCBT glass is more suitable for NIR region optical device applications.

Materials and Synthesis method:
The raw chemicals are weighed according to the base composition and were grinded well in a agate mortar to get fine and homogeneous powder. The fine mixture is taken in to the silica crucibles and kept in an electrical furnace for 1 hour in order to get molten melt. Subsequently the molten mixture was quenched by pouring in on a preheated brass plate and pressed against them by another brass plate. The formed transparent glass samples were annealed for 2 hours to wipe the bubbles formed in it. The obtained glass samples were cut and polished for optical characterization.

Oxygen packing density (O.P.D):
Here ρ and M are the density and molecular weight of the host glass respectively and n is the number of oxygen atoms in the glass composition.

Credit Author Statement:
P.Sailaja: Writing - Original Draft, Investigation Sk. Mahamuda: Writing - Review & Editing, Supervision K. Swapna: Investigation M. Venkateswarlu: Resources Mohini Gupta: Resourses A. S. Rao: Validation

Declaration of Competing Interest:
Authors declare that they don't have any financial and personal relationships with other people or organizations that could inappropriately influence (bias) the work or state.

Acknowledgement:
The authors from KLEF are grateful to Department of Science & Technology (DST), Govt. of India, New Delhi for the sanction of DST-FIST (Level-1) project to department of Physics-KLEF (SR/FST/PS-1/2018/35). The work reported in this paper has also been partially supported by a major research project (EMR/2016/007766) sanctioned by DST, to one of the authors, Prof. A.S. Rao.