Title: Room-temperature scintillation properties of cerium-doped REOX (RE=Y  La  Gd  and Lu; X=F  Cl  Br  and I)

Abstract: The scintillation properties of cerium-doped oxyhalides following the general formula REOX (RE=Y, La, Gd, and Lu; X=F, Cl, Br, and I) are reported. These materials were synthesized under dry conditions as microcrystalline powders from conventional solid state reactions. The room temperature X-ray excited emission and scintillation decay curves were measured and analyzed for each material. Additionally, the hygroscopic nature of the oxychlorides and oxybromides was compared to that of their corresponding rare earth halides. The yttrium, lanthanum, and gadolinium oxychlorides, and all of the oxybromides and oxyiodides are found to be activated by Ce3+. GdOBr doped with 0.5% Ce3+ has the highest light output with a relative luminosity of about one-half that of LaBr3: Ce3+. It displays a single exponential decay of 30ns.

Research Highlights:
►Room temperature scintillation properties of cerium doped rare earth oxyhalides. ►Oxybromides and oxyiodides most efficient scintillators. ►Cerium activation may be linked to structure.

Conclusions:
In addition, the rare earth oxychlorides and oxybromides were found to be less hygroscopic than their rare earth halide counterparts. This indicates that not only can oxyhalides be efficient cerium-activated hosts, they may also be more stable than their corresponding halides. Furthermore, we observed that the cerium activation of these rare earth oxyhalides may be linked to the structural dimensionality of the host.

Disclaimer:
This document was prepared as an account of work sponsored by the United States Government. While this document is believed to contain correct information, neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor The Regents of the University of California, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by its trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof, or The Regents of the University of California. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof or The Regents of the University of California.