Title: Microstructural evolution of Y2O3 and MgAl2O4 ODS EUROFER steels during their elaboration by mechanical milling and hot isostatic pressing

Abstract: Different ODS EUROFER steels reinforced with Y2O3 and MgAl2O4 were elaborated by mechanical milling and hot isostatic pressing. Good compromise between strength and ductility could be obtained but the impact properties remain low (especially for the Y2O3 ODS steel). The materials were structurally characterized at each step of the elaboration. During milling, the martensite laths of the steel are transformed into nano-metric ferritic grains and the Y2O3 oxides dissolve (but not the MgAl2O4 spinels). After the HIP, all the ODS steels remain ferritic with micrometric grains, surrounded by nano-metric grains for the Y2O3 ODS steels. The mechanisms in the Y2O3 ODS steels are complex: the Y2O3 oxides re-precipitate as nano-Y2O3 particles that impede a complete austenitization during the HIP. The quenchability of the ODS steels is modified by the milling process, the oxide nature and the oxide content. Eventually, the advantages and drawbacks of each oxide type are discussed.

Hot working:
The commercial ODS steels and those developed in Japan imply all the consolidation of the milled powders by hot extrusion and hot and/or cold working. These processes create materials with bamboo-like grain structure and therefore anisotropic mechanical properties. Moreover, the grains are often very small, which is not appropriate for the formability of the work pieces (high strength) and their application at high temperatures (low creep resistance by grain boundary sliding).

Elaboration of the ODS steels by MM and HIP:
All the milling have been realized under the same optimized conditions, which ensure a rate of milled particles over 99% and a low contamination of oxygen and carbon.

Experimental techniques:
The materials have been observed in a Jeol 2000 FX transmission electron microscope (TEM) equipped with an X ray energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS) for the chemical analyses. The TEM samples of the milled powders have been prepared by ultramicrotomy, and those of the consolidated steels by mechanical grinding and electropolishing.

After the mechanical milling:
The MM process was only used to mix the oxide reinforcement powders to the EUROFER powders. Nevertheless, it completely modifies the microstructure as shown as follows:

Conclusion:
The ODS steels have been structurally characterized by SEM, TEM and dilatometry at different steps of their elaboration process.

Acknowledgments:
This work has been sponsored in great part by the European Fusion Development Agreement (EFDA). The authors wish to thank J.M. Hennequin for the milling process, P. Bucci and J.M. Leibold for the HIP process, and J.M. Gentzbittel for the useful discussions.