Title: Effect of quenching rate on the β-to-α phase transformation structure in zirconium alloy

Abstract: Microstructures of low-tin Zircaloy-2 specimens subjected to quenching from β to α phase have been studied using optical and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The specimens were quenched at different cooling rates ranging from 3 to 83 Ks−1. Optical microscopy (OM) provided data on the α phase plate width which is correlated to the cooling rate. All the obtained structures after quenching indicate basket-weave morphology. In addition, OM furnished information on β phase grain size which is correlated to the holding time in β phase prior to quenching. SEM was used to characterise the second phase particles in regard to size distribution and mean size in two of the specimens quenched at the rates of 58 and 6.6 Ks−1. One of the specimens was annealed in the α phase after β-quenching, upon which particle sizes were measured. Physical-based models are used to evaluate and explain the microstructural properties observed in this experiment.

Analysis:
The decomposition and evolution of SPP in alloys usually take place by nucleation, growth and coarsening. In dilute alloys such as Zircaloy-2, we suppose that during the early stages of decomposition, nucleation and growth occur by diffusional growth of isolated and non-interacting precipitates with uniform size. At a later stage of the precipitation process, i.e. towards the end of the nucleation-growth, a spectrum of particle size distribution is established. This causes the growth of larger particles at the expense of smaller particles, which dissolve again giving rise to a change of particle size distribution. This process is referred to as coarsening or the Ostwald ripening. The coarsening is a slower process than nucleation-growth. In our evaluation here, we treat these processes separately and assume that during β-quenching of Zircaloy only nucleation and diffusional growth is operative.

Lamella growth in α phase:
The formation and growth of the α-lamella structure may be described by the kinetic theory of phase ordering. In this context we regard growth of ordered domains (here α-lamella) the size of which increases at a constant rate during cooling from the β phase. The characteristic size of the domain is considered to be the lamella thickness (or plate width).