Title: Electrical  optical and morphological properties of nanoparticle indium–tin–oxide layers

Abstract: Porous layers were prepared from DEGUSSA's ITO (In2O3:Sn) nanoparticle dispersion by doctor blading followed by annealing in air. We investigated the influence of various annealing parameters on electrical, optical and morphological thin film properties.                   Conductance rises with increasing annealing temperature and time by more than three orders of magnitude up to 44 Ω−1cm−1. Besides this we found an abrupt decrease in free charge carrier concentration above a critical annealing temperature of 250 °C, which leads to a step in conductance curve. In spite of particle growing during annealing no decrease in porosity was observed and in opposite to compact material, nanoparticle layers do not exhibit an appreciable shrinkage below recrystallisation temperature. These both indicate a densification hindering particle pinning effect, which is believed to be currently the main obstruction to achieve higher electrical conductivities.

Introduction:
Wet deposited films normally need some annealing steps after deposition for getting better conductivity and optical properties. In this paper the effects of various annealing parameters on electrical, optical and morphological properties of nanocrystalline ITO layers are characterised and discussed.

Experimental:
Depending on dilution of ITO dispersion and doctor blading process parameters, such as casting velocity and blade gap height, layer thickness could be varied from 800 nm to about 6 μm. Thicknesses were determined with a DekTak mechanical profilometer and kept approximately constant for every sample batch. Conductance measurements in air were done in a linear four-point setup using a Keithley SMU 236. Low temperature electrical measurements, however, were carried out in vacuum with a van-der-Pauw four-point setup, a Keithley 220 current source, a Keithley 196 System DMM and a Keithley 705 scanner device. Optical transmittance measurements were performed using a Perkin Elmer Lambda 19 UV-VIS-IR spectrometer in a wavelength range of 200 nm to 3000 nm.

Electrical properties:
After this step in conductance characteristics, conductivity rises again with increasing annealing temperatures up to 1000 °C. The latter is related to further contact area increase on the one hand and grain enlargement due to Oswald ripening on the other hand. As the grains become larger, the number of grain boundaries decreases and therewith grain boundary electron scattering. This enhances charge carrier mobility and hence conductivity.

Summary:
In opposite to compact ITO material, nanoparticle layers do not exhibit an appreciable shrinkage below recrystallisation temperature between 1000 °C and 1200 °C. This indicates a kind of particle pinning effect by substrate adhesion. As a consequence, no porosity decrease takes place during annealing and hence no material densification. This is believed to be the main obstruction to achieve higher electrical conductivities. Today, nanoparticle ITO layers do not yet show the very good properties of ITO layers fabricated with physical vapor deposition techniques, but for some modest applications they are an alternative with a high cost reduction potential. If one succeeds in the future to densify nanoparticle derived layers during annealing, high-technical applications as TFT- or LCD-display electrodes may also be realised.

Acknowledgement:
This work was financially supported by DFG (contract number GRK 1161) and DEGUSSA AG. Fruitful discussions with Dr. Thomas Lüthge, Dr. Dieter Adam and Dr. Anna Prodi-Schwab from DEGUSSA Creavis and assistance in experimental work by Ilja Maksimenko are gratefully acknowledged.