Title: On the direct current electric conductivity and conduction mechanism of some stable disubstituted 4-(4-pyridyl)pyridinium ylides in thin films

Abstract: Temperature-dependent d.c. electric conductivity of some recently synthesized organic compounds, stable disubstituted 4-(4-pyridyl)pyridinium ylides, is studied. Thin-film samples (d                      =0.100.80μm) spin-coated from dimethylformamide solutions onto glass substrates have been used. Organic films with reproducible electron transport properties can be obtained if, after deposition, they are submitted to a heat treatment within temperature range of 297 − 527K.                   The studied polycrystalline compounds exhibit typical n-type semiconductor behavior. The activation energy of the electric conduction ranges between 0.59 and 0.94eV.                   Some correlations between semiconducting parameters and molecular structure of the organic compounds have been discussed.                   In the higher temperature range (T                      >400K), the electron transport in examined compounds can be interpreted in terms of the band gap representation model, while in the lower temperature range, the Mott's variable-range hopping conduction model was found to be appropriate.                   Some of the investigated compounds hold promise for thermistor applications.

Results and discussion:
The XRD patterns indicate that the samples have a polycrystalline predominant structure. For films having lower thickness, the crystallites are preferentially oriented with 2 − 3 planes parallel to the substrate surface. For some of the studied films, the XRD patterns also display a halo, which indicates the presence of an amorphous phase. On the series L1 − L3, having thioamide groups, compound L2 shows the lowest activation energy of the electric conduction, suggesting that a better resonance donating substituent R (as methoxy group is) increases the electron delocalization on the molecule and consequently, confers a better electric conductivity. A large number of models, proposed to explain the electric conduction mechanisms in organic semiconducting films, consider the presence of a higher concentration of trapping states at the crystallite boundaries, able to capture the free carriers. In these conditions, a space charge occurs at crystallite boundary and the potential barriers to the electronic transport consequently result. These barriers determine a decrease in the electric conductivity of samples.

Conclusions:
The electron transfer in the investigated compounds is strongly influenced by their specific molecular structures, enabling formation of extended conjugation systems, as well as their packing capacity.