Title: Electrochemical characterization and redox behavior of Nb-doped SrTiO3

Abstract: Sr-vacancy compensated Nb-doped SrTiO3 with the nominal composition Sr0.94Ti0.9Nb0.1O3 has been evaluated as a solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) anode material in terms of redox stability and electrochemical properties. Sr0.94Ti0.9Nb0.1O3 has been synthesized with a recently developed modified glycine–nitrate process. The phase purity and redox behavior have been analyzed with XRD and TGA. The electrochemical properties of Sr0.94Ti0.9Nb0.1O3 and a composite electrode of Sr0.94Ti0.9Nb0.1O3/YSZ have been investigated by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) on cone shaped electrodes and on electrodes in a symmetrical cell configuration. The experiments indicated that the Nb-doped SrTiO3 electrodes were redox stable and showed a potential ability to be used as a part of a SOFC anode. The electrochemical activity appeared to be governed by the concentration of defect species (especially Ti3+ and VO                         ••                      ) in the vicinity of the triple phase boundaries. However, the electrocatalytic activity of the materials was not sufficient and it needs to be improved if Nb-doped SrTiO3 based materials are to be realized as SOFC anodes.

Introduction:
A new anode must satisfy several important requirements. It should be thermodynamically stable in the anode compartment, electrocatalytically active, and have both electronic and ionic conductivity. The anode must also be chemically inert in contact with the electrolyte and interconnect materials and posses a thermal expansion coefficient similar to that of other SOFC components.

Sample preparation and characterization:
The sintered samples were mechanically prepared into cone shaped electrodes. The base of the cones had a diameter of 7.5 mm with the cone mantle making an angle of 45° with the base.

Acknowledgements:
The authors would like to acknowledge financial support of the European Union IP-project Real-SOFC (SES6-CT-2003-502612). We are grateful to the Fuel Cells and Solid State Chemistry Department at Risø for assistance.