Title: Phase  microstructure and related mechanical properties of a series of (NbTaZr)C-Based high entropy ceramics

Abstract: The microstructure and a few mechanical-related properties of a series of multi-equiatomic-cation (NbTaZr)C-based carbides, namely (NbTaZr)C, (NbTaZrW)C, (ZrNbTaHf)C and (NbTaZrHfW)C, were assessed to shed light into understanding the role of composition. Dense, pure and homogeneous rock-salt structured ceramics are achievable for all four compositions through spark plasma sinntering at 2200 °C for 10 min. Neither the hardness nor the fracture toughness is determined solely by the number of cations; among the four high entropy ceramics, (NbTaZrW)C exhibits the best combination of hardness and fracture toughness. Electronic structure and lattice distortion differences can explain part of the property differences, such as the lowered Young's modulus of (NbTaZrW)C and (NbTaZrHfW)C compared to (NbTaZr)C; but certainly, more in-depth theoretical investigations are needed to provide a full understanding of the effects of W and/or Hf addition on the hardness and fracture toughness of (NbTaZr)C.

Experimental materials and methods:
The raw constituent powders, include TaC (~1.10 μm), ZrC (~1.35 μm), NbC (~1.20 μm), HfC (~1.10 μm), WC (~1.25 μm), were weighted and mixed in equiatomic proportions to obtain the (TaZrNb)C, (TaZrNbHf)C, (TaZrNbW)C and (TaZrNbHfW)C powder mixtures. The powder mixtures were ball milled at 250 rpm for 20 h in cemented carbide jar. The ball (cemented carbide, diameter: 5 mm) to powder mixture was 10:1. Before milling, the jar was filled with Ar gas. Subsequently, the powder mixture was sintered using SPS (LABOX-325 R Spark plasma sintering system, Japan); the sintering temperature was 2200 °C for 10min in vacuum, the pressure was maintained at 30 MPa during the sintering process. Densities of the bulks were measured using the Archimedes’ method. The phase components and lattice parameters of the sintered parts were determined using X-ray diffraction (XRD, Japan, Cu Kα, 40 kV, 40 mA, 5°/min, 30-80° range). Grain structure and micro-scale compositional homogeneity were visualized using scanning electron microscope (SEM, TESCAN MIRA3) operated in back-scattered electron (BSE) mode. Nano-scale elemental distribution was assessed using transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEOL F200). For SEM characterization, the specimens were ground to 1200 grit and polished using 0.02 μm colloidal silica; specimens for TEM were prepared using ion-milling method.

Summary and conclusions:
These findings indicate that appropriate combination of cations should be selected for high-strength HEC design. The comparison made for the current HECs and other reported high entropy carbides suggest that the current set of HECs, especially the (NbTaZrW)C carbide, could serve as good starting compositions for future UTHC design through further cation doping and/or compositional tuning.

Declaration of competing interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.