Title: Fabrication of Sialon ceramic via non-aqueous gelcasting based on the HEMA gelling agent

Abstract: In the traditional raw materials used for preparing Sialon ceramics, hydrolytic AlN, cannot easily be used for aqueous gelcasting. To overcome this problem, a new type of gelcasting technique was developed. By introducing 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone (NMP) as a solvent, Sialon ceramics were formed using a low-viscosity non-aqueous gel system based on the 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate (HEMA) gelling agent in this work. Based on this gel system, the rheological properties of the slurry and the solidification and sintering properties of Sialon ceramics were studied. The results show that the best rheological properties of slurry can be obtained with the dispersant dosage of 6 vol%. As the HEMA content increases, the flexural strength of the green bodies increase. When the ratio of HEMA to TMPTA (trimethylolpropane triacrylate) is 10:1 and the HEMA content is 15 wt%, the flexural strength of the green body reaches a maximum of 13.07 MPa. β′-Sialon ceramic has the best comprehensive mechanical properties at the sintering temperature of 1700 °C. Its bulk density, Vickers hardness, fracture toughness and flexural strength were 3.207 g/cm3, 1484 HV, 7.11 MPa m1/2 and 351 MPa, respectively.

Experiment method and characterization:
The rheological behavior was characterized using a rotary rheometer (C-LTD80/QC, Anton Paar, Australia). The phase of the ceramics was identified using an X-ray diffractometer (Rigaku, Japan). The microstructures of the ceramics were examined using a scanning electron microscopy (Inspect F50, FEI, USA). The bulk densities were tested by a density instrument. The flexural strengths were determined using the three-point bending method with a bending strength machine (CMT4504, Suns Corporation, China), for which the size of the bars was 5.25 mm × 6.5 mm × 21 mm. The Vickers hardness and fracture toughness values were tested by a hardness tester (270VRSTV, Affri, Italy).

Flexural strength of the green bodies:
In the HEMA/TMPTA gel system, the crosslinker TMPTA contains multiple double bonds and initiates the crosslinking reaction by graft polymerization during gelation. The BPO initiator induces a crosslinking reaction of multiple organic monomers and constructs a three-dimensional network structure, which ‘locks’ the powder to form a non-aqueous gel, and the particles are coated by gel, forming ceramic green bodies.

Declaration of competing interest:
We declare that we have no financial and personal relationships with other people or organizations that can inappropriately influence our work, there is no professional or other personal interest of any nature or kind in any product, service and/or company that could be construed as influencing the position presented in, or the review of, the manuscript entitled.