Title: Synthesis of 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 nanoparticles with excellent sintering performance via novel Sol-Gel-Flux method

Abstract: To alleviate agglomeration and refine the particle size, a novel sol-gel-flux method (SGFM) was applied to synthesise ZrO2 (1Y6Ce–ZrO2) nanoparticles (NPs) stabilised by 1 mol% Y2O3 and 6 mol% CeO2. Both the NaCl and NaCl + KCl flux systems were investigated. The effects of calcination temperature and holding time on the phase composition and morphology of the NPs were studied, and the sintering performances of the 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 NPs prepared in the two flux systems were compared. The results showed that the optimum temperature for the preparation of 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 NPs by SGFM could be reduced from 800 to 700 °C if the NaCl system was replaced by the NaCl + KCl system. The lower calcination temperature resulted in well-dispersed tetragonal 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 NPs with an average grain size of 14.5 nm and quasi-spherical morphology. 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 NPs prepared in the NaCl + KCl system exhibited better sintering performance than 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 NPs prepared in the NaCl system. The 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 ceramics obtained by sintering the former showed higher stability at high temperatures, smaller grain sizes, and narrower grain size distributions, which are conducive to improving the mechanical properties of 1Y6Ce–ZrO2 ceramics. Fully tetragonal 1Y6Ce-TZP ceramic with an average grain size of 0.68 μm and a relative density of 98.49% were obtained by pressureless sintering of the former at 1400 °C for 2 h.

Preparation method:
The solution mixture was heated at 80 °C under magnetic stirring until the solution became increasingly viscous, and a translucent precursor gel was obtained. The gel was further heated at 130 °C for 3 h in a drying oven to obtain the xerogel. The xerogel was calcined at 600, 700, and 800 °C for 2 h in an air atmosphere. To remove NaCl and KCl, the calcined powder was ultrasonically washed in deionised water for 1 h, followed by centrifugation at 8000 rpm.

Characterisation:
The calcination behaviours of the obtained xerogel samples were characterised by thermogravimetry/differential thermal analysis (TG/DTA, STA449F3, NETZSCH, Germany) from room temperature to 1200 °C at a heating rate of 5 °C/min. X-ray diffraction (XRD, D8 Advance, Bruker, Germany) patterns were obtained with the scanning speeds of 6°/min (2θ = 20–90°) and 0.5°/min (2θ = 27–33°) for phase composition analysis and primary grain size determination, respectively. The morphological analysis and elemental mapping of the obtained NPs were performed using a field emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM, Merlin Compact, Zeiss, Germany) coupled with energy dispersive spectrometry. A transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEM-2100F, JEOL, Japan) was used to observe the microstructures of the obtained NPs at higher magnifications. The specific surface areas of the NPs were determined using the standard Brunauer-Emmett-Teller technique (BET, IQ2, Quantachrome, USA).

Declaration of competing interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.