Title: Effect of particle size on additive manufacturing of complex architecture of silicon carbide

Abstract: The high-temperature stability, chemical inertness, and enhanced mechanical strength of SiC are utilized for the fabrication of space components. Here, environment-friendly water-based SiC ceramic inks were developed using different size SiC powders. The relation between the SiC particle size and rheological properties is established. The additive manufacturing conditions for SiC are optimized which shows the compressive strength of ∼1.21 MPa. This strength was obtained in the green state for SiC having an average particle size of ∼0.5 μm. As the milling time increases, particle size decreases which make better dispersion in the ink system and it shows good shear-thinning characteristics. The optimum sintering temperature (1400 °C) results in improved compressive strength of ∼80 MPa with a relative density of ∼81%. The current printing method can produce complex ceramic components which can be utilized for manufacturing complex aerospace components.

Introduction:
Particle size distribution plays an important role in determining mechanical properties, microstructure, and also sintering behavior of green as well as the sintered body. Different particle sizes are obtained by different milling methods. However, longer-time ball milling creates smaller particle sizes, which results in better distribution of particles and enhanced green as well as sintered density. Mostly, the sintering process happens quicker as the particle size reduces because it needs less distance for diffusion between particles. In this study, we developed an inexpensive, non-toxic, and environment-friendly with high solid loading (>50 vol% or ∼77 wt%) SiC ceramic ink for fabricating samples with geometrically complicated structures. The rheological properties of SiC ink derived after a different duration of ball milling are comparatively investigated with the as-received SiC-based ink system. Moreover, the variation of the SiC particle sizes on the mechanical properties and microstructural characteristics of printed SiC structures in the green state as well as in printed sintered SiC structures were studied systematically.

Results & discussions:
With an increase in ball milling duration, the particle size decreases, reducing the open pores, and hence the AP decreases. This ultimately improves the BD of the printed sintered structures. Hence there is a direct correlation between milling time and BD. As the BD increases, the mechanical properties of the printed sintered samples get improved as confirmed by the comprehension test as discussed later.

Conclusions:
In this study, SiC structures were successfully fabricated through DIW using a range of particle sizes starting from microns to the sub-micron level obtained by varying milling durations (1 h, 3hrs, and 5 h). The extrudable SiC inks were prepared by using an environmental-friendly aqueous binder system (5 wt% PVA), combined with a humectant (∼4 vol% glycerol). The sub-micron SiC particles require a higher amount of dispersant (∼2–3 vol % PEG) as the surface area of SiC particles is increased compared to as-received SiC (A.P.S∼60 μm) to obtain a homogeneous printable ink. Through this, SiC inks (∼50 vol% SiC solid loading) demonstrate excellent printability under low applied shear stress using a fine nozzle size (∼900 μm) and maintain the shape and integrity of the printed structure without bulging or deforming. Also, the effects of variation of milling time and the sintering conditions on the mechanical properties and microstructural characterization of printed green SiC structures were investigated in detail. There is a direct correlation between milling hours and sintering temperature with the mechanical strength of the printed structure. It is found that with more milling time (5hrs) and higher sintering temperature (1400 °C), the mechanical strength of the samples increases. More the milling time, the higher the reduction in particle size and voids and hence more interlocking of particles during sintering at a higher temperature. Moreover, the BD also increases as the milling duration is increased. The mechanical properties of additive-manufactured SiC are comparable to the state of art printed structures. Overall, through this study, it is concluded that the effect of milling time provides a better understanding of printability, mechanical properties, and microstructural characteristics of DIW printed green parts as well as sintered structures of SiC ceramics.

Funding:
This work did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.

Data availability:
Data will be made available on request.

Consent for publication:
All authors have consented the submission of this article to the journal.

Declaration of competing interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.