Title: Optical and devitrification kinetic studies of chloro-antimonate glasses

Abstract: In this present work optical and devitrification studies of the synthesized 80 Sb2O3 –10 SrCl2 – 10 CdCl2 glasses were explored. The samples were annealed at temperature 455 °C by the different time range from 10 to 25 min with an interval of 5 min. All the synthesized samples have been characterized by spectroscopic techniques viz., UV–visible transmission, Fourier Transform Infrared transmission and Urbach plot was the complementary for the optical band gap calculation, finally the refractive index of the glass sample has been determined. The synthesized glass sample has a large optical window operating between 361 nm and 7.51 μm and has a high refractive index close to 1.7. The Urbach's plot shows that the optical band gap of the glass sample reaches a higher order value 3.25 eV. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) examination confirms that devitrification obeyed superficial mechanism, when controlled by the specific pre-nucleation process, which is based on self-creation of rough areas and the crystallization diffusion depth. On surface crystals formed in different morphologies like polyhedron; hemispherical (rarely); lath and needle. The progression of crystallization towards the interior is done layer by layer mode (nested lamellae) whereas the contour of the assembly is in a root mode. X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern shows that the crystalline structure is composed of Valentenite. The kinetic parameters such as crystallization energy (150 kJ/mol) and the Avrami's (n = 3.405) index were calculated according to Chen's and Ozawa's methods. The attractive optical qualities and kinetic parameters indicate that the synthesized glass sample is a good stability against devitrification.

Introduction:
In the present studies a crystallization annealing temperature 455 °C has been applied to the four vitreous samples to the treatment time varies from 10 min to 25 min by an interval of 5 min. The mechanisms of crystal growth and morphologies have been explored by using SEM studies and also crystallization of the glasses was discussed. X-ray diffraction pattern has shown that glass crystallizes in Valentinite the one of the allotropic forms of antimonate.

Optical properties:
Refractive index measurements of a prepared sample show a little bit high value around 1.7 this value exceed those of conventional glasses.

X ray diffraction [sample (5); treated at 455 °C]:
Minimum significance = 2, Minimum tip width = 0.01, Maximum tip width = 1, Peak base width = 2 and the method is second derivative minimum.

Conclusion:
Crystallization develops from the surface towards the interior in the form of overlapping lamellae and are grouped together in sets, each has the outer profile of a root. Growth takes place in transverse directions until the lamellae of different roots meet. After 25 min of annealing, a crystalline film is formed covering the surface with an average thickness of 70 μm. X-ray diffraction pattern shows the single-phase nature of the crystallization structure in the form of Valentinite. The kinetic parameters of crystallization via DSC measurements were calculated for different heating rates 2, 4, 6 and 8 °C/min and the average crystallization energy is found 150 KJ/mol shows good stability against devitrification. The Arami's index has an average value 3.405 attributes to crystallization in rough areas of the surface.

Declaration of Competing Interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.