Title: Role of Al in engineering the optical band gap and PL emission intensity properties of CdO thin films grown by SILAR method

Abstract: Herein, we report on synthesizing pure and aluminum (Al) doped cadmium oxide (CdO) thin films onto glass slides by successive ionic layer adsorption and reaction (SILAR) method. The optical, electrical, structural, and morphological evaluations were conducted for the produced samples after the grown thin films heat treated in a convection ashing furnace at 200 °C. X-ray diffraction (XRD) results disclosed that the prepared samples posses the polycrystalline cubic phase of CdO material and the (1 1 1) plane was the preferred growth orientation. Besides, the XRD analysis strongly suggested that the integration of aluminum into the CdO lattices completed as no other phases, such as Cd, Al, or related oxides, were present in the diffraction patterns. From the field emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM) images, it was noticed that Al doping concentration changed the surface morphologies. Energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDAX) confidently proves the presence of Al as a result of the SILAR process. The optical properties were assessed by performing Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy (Uv–vis), and it was observed that the optical bandgap increased from 2.5 eV to 3 eV due to the increased percentages of Al content in the Al:CdO nanostructures. The Photoluminescence (PL) spectrum evidently showed that the PL emission intensity of prepared samples was directly influenced over varying Al content in the CdO nanostructures. The electrical features of the SILAR derived CdO thin films uncovered that the resistivity of samples showed increment with the Al doping, thus the electrical conductivity of the grown samples decreased in return.

Introduction:
In the present work, we present the deposition of pure and Al doped CdO thin films by performing the SILAR method as it is simple, repeatable and economic. Also, the optical, structural, morphological, and electrical (I–V) properties of grown CdO and Al:CdO nanostructures were analyzed by using the Uv–vis spectrometer, XRD, FE-SEM, Photoluminescence and Iviumstat since finding a complete work regarding the effects of Al doping on CdO nanostructures is very limited. And, to our best knowledge, this will be the first study that divulges on the SILAR deposition of CdO thin films doped with aluminum atoms.

Conclusions:
In the present study, the SILAR technique was applied to produce the pure and Al doped CdO thin films on the glass slides for the first time according to literature survey. The aftermath of aluminum doping were also investigated in respect of structural, morphological, optical and electrical properties of the prepared CdO nanostructures. In the XRD analysis, it was observed that the grown samples were polycrystalline cubic structures having preferential orientation along (1 1 1) plane. And, it was also see that the crystallite size for the preferred (111) plane orientation decreased from 194 nm to 146 nm due to the doping with aluminum. The FE-SEM images showed that Al doped CdO nanostructures displayed certain morphologic modifications as compared to the nanoflake structure of the pure CdO sample. The EDAX results acknowledged the integration of Al ions in the CdO thin films coated by the cost effective SILAR method. The direct optical bandgap shifted to the higher energy, from 2.5 eV to 3 eV, as a result of the introduction of Al ions to the CdO nanostructures which ultimately amplified the carrier concentration of the grown samples. The PL spectroscopy exhibits emissions at 2 different energies whose intensities were noted to be exactly proportional to the existing Al doping percentages. The electrical (I–V) measurements also illustrated that CdO samples greatly affected by the presence of Al ions which altered the conductivity of prepared samples entirely. Therefore, Al doping can be considered as a tuning agent for the physical assets of CdO thin films which can be beneficial for optoelectronic applications of cadmium oxides such as lasers, solar cells, photodiodes, optical communications, LEDs, smart windows, etc.

Declaration of competing interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Acknowledgements:
The authors did not receive support from any organization for the submitted work.