Title: A first-principles investigation of physical properties and superconductivity of NbPS

Abstract: This study reports a theoretical examination of the structural, elastic, mechanical, electronic, phonon and electron–phonon interaction properties of the body-centered orthorhombic structure of NbPS by using the generalized gradient approximation of the density functional theory and the planewave ab initio pseudopotential method. An analysis of the elastic and mechanical properties reveals ductile nature of this compound. The electronic density of states at the Fermi energy is heavily contributed by d orbitals, revealing a more active role for transition metal Nb atoms in determining the lattice dynamical as well as the superconducting properties of NbPS. The phonon spectrum is characterized by anomalies in the lowest acoustic and lowest optical branches which are dominated by the vibrations of Nb atoms. The characteristic features in the electron and phonon spectra clearly suggest that the lowest branches of acoustic and optical nature are more involved in the process of scattering of electrons than the remaining ones due to their phonon anomalies and the significant existence of Nb d electrons at the Fermi level. From the integration of the Eliashberg spectral function, we obtain a value of average electron–phonon coupling constant                          λ                       = 1.07, confirming strong interaction between electrons and phonons. The computed value of superconducting critical temperature T                                                                                                                c                                                                            = 13.7 K harmonizes very well with the experimentally reported value of 13.0 K.

Summary:
In addition to electronic and elastic properties, lattice dynamical properties of NbPS are presented and discussed in detail. The most interesting feature in the phonon dispersion curves of NbPS is the softening of (i.e.shows anomaly in) the lowest acoustic and lowest optical phonon branches. We have shown that this phonon anomaly leads to strong electron–phonon interaction in the studied superconductor. Analyzing the partial phonon DOS, we find that the most of the lattice vibrations below 6.02 THz mainly originate from the heavier Nb atoms while most of lattice vibrations between 6.20 and 11.10 THz come from the coupled motion of lighter S and P atoms. Nb and S atoms remain almost silent above 11.10 THz which is dominated by the vibrations of lightest P atoms. This picture reveals that Nb-related low-frequency vibrations have the potential to be more involved in the process of scattering of electrons than the remaining vibrations.

Declaration of Competing Interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.