Title: Self-lubricating Ti–C–N nanocomposite coatings prepared by double magnetron sputtering

Abstract: This paper is devoted to the development of Ti(C,N)-based nanocomposite protective coatings consisting of nanocrystals of a hard phase (TiN or TiC                         x                      N                         y                      ) embedded in an amorphous carbon-based matrix (a-C or a-CN                         x                      ). The objective here is the achievement of a good compromise between the mechanical and tribological properties by the appropriate control of the hard/soft phase ratio and the microstructural characteristics of the film. To achieve this purpose, dual magnetron sputtering technique was employed following two different strategies. In the first one, we use Ti and graphite targets and Ar/N2 gas mixtures, while in the second case, TiN and graphite targets are sputtered in an Ar atmosphere. By changing the sputtering power applied to each magnetron, different sets of samples are prepared for each route. The effect of the bias voltage applied to the substrate is also studied in some selected cases. The mechanical and tribological properties of the films are characterized and correlated with the microstructure, crystallinity and phase composition. The establishment of correlations enables the development of advanced coatings with tailored mechanical and tribological properties for desired applications.

Experimental details:
To calculate the values of stress, the Stoney's equation was employed. The curvature was estimated by measuring 20-mm profiles on coatings deposited over silicon substrates.

Chemical bonding:
In order to investigate the chemical bonding structure, EELS and XPS techniques were applied to these series of nanocomposite coatings. These techniques do not require the long-range order that XRD needs and, thus, information concerning the chemical state of the elements inside the matrix can be obtained.

Acknowledgements:
Financial support from the Spanish MEC (project no. MAT2004-01052 and MAT2007-66881-C02-01) and the I3P program of CSIC is acknowledged. The authors are grateful to M. Brizuela and A. García-Luis for their assistance in the mechanical measurements.