Title:
Structural and electrical properties of TeO

Abstract:
Ternary glasses with molar composition 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O, where 0 ≤ x ≤ 15, were prepared by the press-melt quenching method. Since this type of glasses shows promising application in electrochemical and thermoelectric devices, the structural and electrical properties of the glassy system presented above were investigated in the present work. In order to evaluate the structure of the prepared glasses, X-ray diffraction (XRD), density measurement, and Raman spectroscopy were performed, while the glass transition temperature and thermal stability were determined by Differential Scanning Calorimeter. The vitreous state of the compositions was confirmed by their XRD pattern. The compositional dependence, particularly the K2O content, on physical features such as density and molar volume, can be correlated with the non-bridging oxygen formation and the variation in linkages. Raman spectra showed a gradual development, from TeO3 to TeO4 structural units, when the mol% of potassium oxide added into the glass network changes from x=7.5 to x=15. In addition, for x≥7.5, a decrease of the vanadium coordination from five to four was observed. The effect on the glasses' conductivity, due to the inclusion of K2O, was studied by impedance spectroscopy and dc electrical measurements, in a wide range of temperatures. It was found that the dc conductivity mechanism changed from predominantly ionic, for 2.5<x≤7.5, to predominantly electronic, for x>7.5.

Keywords:
Tellurite glasses
Electrical measurements
Raman spectroscopy
X-ray powder diffraction

Acknowledgements:
Acknowledgement:
Acknowledgement This work is funded by FEDER funds through the COMPETE 2020 Programme and National Funds through FCT — Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology under the project UID/CTM/50025/2013.

Introduction:
Nowadays, the number of studies on tellurium oxide based glasses increased, rather than that of the borate and silicate glasses. This interest on tellurite glasses is owed to their physical characteristics, such as, high glass forming ability, low glass transition temperature (TG), low melting-point, high thermal expansion coefficients, large third-order non-linear susceptibility, high refractive index, high infrared transmission, high dielectric constant, and low hygroscopic properties [1–8]. Furthermore, transition metal oxide (TMO) glasses, like TeO2–V2O5 compositions, can be extensively employed as cathode materials in solid state batteries due to their unique isotropic, flexible and low density structure [9–10]. Additionally, this type of compositions can also have application in gas sensors [11], memory switching [12], and thermoelectric devices [13].
Tellurium dioxide is a conditional glass former so that it is essential to add other components to achieve the glassy state under conventional quenching conditions. Therefore, glass forming agents or modifiers, such as, transition metal oxides or alkali oxides, are employed to enhance the tellurite glasses forming ability and stability [4]. Vanadate tellurite (TeO2-V2O5) glasses have attracted added interest, also due to its high rigidity and remarkable glass forming ability [14,15]. It is worth to mention that, the role and type of modifier oxides in the vitreous transition of tellurite melts, has a strong impact on the tellurite forming units.
The structure of tellurite glasses consist of [TeO4] trigonal bipyramids (tbp), [TeO3] trigonal pyramids (tp), and [TeO3+δ] polyhedra as main structural units. In the [TeO4] tbp unit, a lone pair of electrons occupies an equatorial site of the Te sp3d orbital. By analogy, in the [TeO3] tp, the lone pair occupies the apex of the tp sp3 orbital [16]. The concentration of the respective structural units is strongly affected by the glass composition, namely, by the type and concentration of network modifier, and or other components. When adding network forming oxides to TeO2, Te–O–Te bridges are broken and the concentration of [TeO4] tbp units decreases, while the concentration of [TeO3] tp units increases [16].
In a tellurite glass, the introduction of alkali oxides as modifiers, leads to the formation of different structural units at different alkali oxide contents [15–17]. The glasses with alkali content below 20% consist of a continuous network by sharing corners of TeO4 tbp. Consequently, TeO3+δ polyhedra are formed with one non-bridging oxygen (NBO). In glasses containing 20–30mol% of alkali oxide, a continuous network of TeO3 tp with NBOs is formed. While for glasses containing >30% alkali oxide, isolated structural units such as Te2O5 2− coexist in the continuous network [18].
V2O5 can be found in either four-fold coordinated (VO4 tetrahedron), or five-fold coordinated (VO5 trigonal bipyramid) structural units. The coordination number for V+4 is 5 because it cannot occupy tetrahedral sites [10,16]. In tellurite glasses, the extent of TeO4 tbp in comparison to TeO3 tp, and in vanadate glasses, the extent of VO4 tetrahedral in comparison to VO5 octahedral units, has been reported to influence the conductivity properties [6,10,19].
It is known that tellurite–vanadate binary and ternary glasses possess semiconducting behavior since the vanadium ions present two valence states (V4+ and V5+) [20,21]. The electrical conductivity is, therefore, owed to electrons hopping between these two states [20,21]. When these glasses are doped with alkali ions, like K+, the electrical conductivity might consist of mixed electronic and ionic, pure electronic, or pure ionic conduction, depending on the composition. There are several works regarding the electrical properties of tellurite–vanadate glasses containing silver [22] or alkali metals like Li [10,23] and Na [24]. According with [24] for the xNa2O–(1–x)V2O5–2TeO2 glassy system, the polaronic conductivity decreases steadily with the addition of Na+ ions in the range of 0.1<x<0.4. However, for an intermediate range 0.4<x<0.6, ionic conductivity becomes dominant causing total conductivity to increase. The conductivity decrease, in the range 0.1<x<0.4, was suggested to be due to the reduction of V2O5 which leads to the creation of NBO, while the conductivity increase, at 0.4<x<0.6, was attributed to ionic diffusion. This polaronic to ionic transition can be accompanied by structural changes [23]. Krins et al. [10] observed an mixed polaronic–ionic conduction in xLi2O–(1–x)(0.3V2O5–0.7TeO2) glasses where, for x=0.3, a transition from electronic to ionic conductivity, related with the decrease of the tellurium coordination from TeO4 to TeO3, was observed.
Up to date and from our research and knowledge, very few information is available on the structural and dc electrical characterization of tellurite–vanadate glasses containing potassium. Such studies are important as they provide valuable information on the structural changes which are responsible for the polaronic–ionic conduction transition, in the mixed conductive glasses. Thus, the present work aims to: 1) evaluate the influence of the K2O concentration on the structure of the glasses; 2) investigate the dc conductivity and polaronic–ionic contributions in the electrical conduction as a function of K2O content; 3) correlate the electrical and structural properties.

Experimental Procedure:
The samples 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O, with x=0, 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10 and 15mol%, were prepared by dry mixing 10 g high purity chemical (>99%) batches of TeO2, V2O5, and K2CO3. The samples will hereafter be termed as, TVK0, TVK2.5, TVK5, TVK7.5, TVK10, and TVK15, in agreement with the x value of each composition. The compounds were weighted with an accuracy of 0.1 mg and grounded in an agate mortar. The starting mixtures were placed in alumina crucibles and heated in an electrical furnace, with a 5K/min heating rate, up to 673K and maintained for 60min to complete the loss of carbonates. Afterwards, the samples were melted at 1173K for 30min. The melts were quenched into a polished steel mold and pressed by another steel block, at room temperature.
Immediately after quenching, the samples were annealed at 473K, for 2h, and then, slowly cooled inside the furnace to minimize the internal stresses resulting from quenching. The annealing temperature was chosen in agreement with the glass transition temperature Tg (508–515K) obtained from a previous work on similar glasses [25].
The X-ray diffraction patterns (XRD) were obtained at room temperature on a Philips X'Pert MPD diffractometer (CuKα radiation, λ=1.54056 Å) operating at 40kV, and 30mA.
The glass density, ρ, was determined on bulk samples by Archimedes' method using toluene as the immersion liquid. The molar volume, Vm, was calculated from the density data using the relation Vm=M/ρ, where M is the molecular weight of the glass given by: M=0.5 M Te O 2 + 50 − x M V 2 O 5 + x M K 2 O
The calorimetric studies of the samples were done using Differential Scanning Calorimeter (Perkin Elmer Pyris1-DSC) under dynamic N2 gas atmosphere (at a constant rate of 20cm3/min). All DSC measurements were performed using a heating rate of 12°C/min.
The Raman spectroscopy of bulk samples was carried out in a T64000 Jobin Yvon SPEX spectrometer, using an Ar laser (λ=532 nm) as excitation font. The spectra were obtained, in a back-scattering geometry, between 100 and 1200cm−1.
For the electrical measurements the opposite sides of the bulk samples, with a thickness of about 1mm, were painted with silver paste. The dc electrical conductivity (σdc) was measured in the temperature range 200–380K by the two probe method using a Keithley 617 programmable electrometer/source. Impedance spectroscopy measurements were performed at room temperature, between 102 Hz and 106 Hz, using an Agilent 4294A Network Analyzer in the Cp-Rp configuration [26–28].

Results And Discussion:
3.1 XRD patterns The XRD patterns of the samples, plotted in Fig. 1 , showed no crystalline phases, which is characteristic of the vitreous state of the glasses. However, as seen in Fig. 1, the maximum of the broad diffuse scattering, at 2θ–26°, shows some fluctuation with increasing concentration of potassium oxide in the glasses. The 2θ maximum position of each sample, is shown in Table 1 and Fig. 2 . The changes in the 2θ maximum position of the amorphous peak, can be related to a variation in the length of TeO and VO short range bonds [29], and therefore, one can expect some structural changes in the TVKx glasses. It was also reported, in CuO–TeO2–B2O3 and CuO–TeO2–B2O3 glasses, a shift towards higher 2θ values indicating a shortening of the TeO bond length [29].
3.2 Density, molar volume and oxygen packing density The obtained values for the density, ρ, and molar volume, VM, of the TeO2–V2O5–K2O glasses, are given in Table 1. The density of the glasses was found to be in the range of 2.95–3.50g.cm−3. These values are close to the density found in tellurite vanadate lithium glasses [21], and lower than the ones measured for xNa2O–(35–x)V2O5–65TeO2 [14] and 0.5[xAg2O–(1–x)V2O5]–0.5TeO2 glasses [22]. The variations observed in the glasses' density, as function of composition, may be associated with the structural changes resulting from different K2O concentration. The molar volume of the glasses also changes with the K2O concentration (Fig. 2 and Table 1). The changes in VM for tellurite–vanadate glasses doped with metal oxides (MO), can be related with either, the network modification, the change in MO bond length, or, the difference between the molar volume of each component oxide [14]. The KO bond length (r=2.32 Å) in K2O [30], is larger than the bond length of both, TeO (r=1.98 Å) [15], and VO (r=1.83 Å) in V2O5 [15]. However, the volume occupied by a VO5 structural unit is larger than that of the K2O [15]. The variation of the molar volume of the TVKx glasses, as function of x, can be divided into three regions as illustrated in Fig. 2 and Table 1. In the first region, with K2O content up to 5mol%, VM sharply increases due to the formation of excess free volume and the glass structure becomes more open. In the second region, 5<x ≤ 10mol%, the molar volume drastically decreases, which can be taken as a sign of a structural change in the glasses [14]. Finally, for TVK15, VM gradually increases as seen in Table 1. Table 1 also shows that the decrease rate in the molecular weight, is smaller than the variation rate verified in the density of the samples. On the other hand, the cause for the ρ and VM changes might also be related with other complex reasons. For instance, it was already reported that, the density of Li2O–SiO2 and Li2O–GeO2 binary glasses, increases with the addition of Li2O content, to the detriment of the heavier component. The former has been attributed to the formation of denser structural units, while the origin of the latter is known as the germinate anomaly and is still being investigated [15]. The oxygen molar volume values, VO, were calculated by [31]: (1) V O=∑ x i M i ρ . 1 ∑ x i n i where xi and Mi, are, the molar fraction and the molecular weight of each component, respectively. The density of the sample is represented by the Greek letter ρ, and ni is the number of oxygen atoms in each correspondent oxide. The VO values of the samples are listed in Table 1. The observed increase in VO, for K2O ≤ 5mol%, can be related with the formation of bonds such as VOV, TeOV and OVO. The oxygen ions in the mixed TeOV and VOV linkages are more polarized than that of the TeOTe linkages. This is owed to the higher field intensity of V5+ ions (1.33 Å−2), in respect to the field intensity of Te4+ ions (0.71 Å−2) (Table 2 ) [28]. This yields a more compact packing of the oxygen ions. Further substitution of V2O5 (5 ≤ x<15mol%) by K2O, yields a less tightly packing of the glass network. As the K+ ions are introduced into the glass network, since they have lower field intensity (0.13 Å−2) than that of the V5+ ions (1.33 Å−2), the degradation of Te–O–V, V–O–V and O–V–O linkages occurs. The oxygen packing density values (OPD), were calculated using the density (ρ) and composition values by applying the following formula [30]: (2) OPD=1000 C . ρ m where C is the number of oxygen atoms per each composition, and m represents the mass. As one can see in Table 1, the OPD values of glasses show a non-linear trend with x, and were found to vary from 69.88 to 57.64 mol.L−1. This behavior can be explained with the increased or decreased number of oxygen atoms per unit composition, which results in greater or fewer linkages in the glass network, respectively [30].
3.3 DSC spectra The DSC patterns of the glasses, TVK0, TVK5, TVK10 and TVK15, are displayed in Fig. 3 , and their thermal parameters in Table 3 . The results shown in Fig. 3 indicate the presence of one endothermic phenomenon, in the temperature range of 239–242°C, and one exothermic phenomenon, around 340–487°C. The first corresponds to the glass transition temperature (TG) of the samples, whereas the latter should be related with a first crystallization temperature (TC) of the glasses. Usually, for the evaluation of the thermal stability of glasses, the difference between TX and TG, where TX is the onset of crystallization temperature, or the difference between TC and TG, criterion is applied. Higher values of this criterion usually correspond to a higher thermal stability and glass-forming ability. The results reveal that the glass stability of the samples ranges from 102 to 248°C. While the TG values of the samples are similar, the crystallization temperature of glass TVK0 is smaller than that of the remaining and therefore this sample has the smallest thermal stability. Nevertheless, its value is still greater than 100°C. The addition of K2O to the system composition, acting as glass network modifier, should promote the ability of the system to form a glass structure and therefore a higher TC value was measured.
3.4 Raman spectra The structural modifications of the 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O glassy system, observed by Raman spectroscopy performed at room temperature, are shown in Fig. 4 . Since the majority of the bands in the Raman spectra are broad and asymmetric and there are some shoulders evidenced, a deconvolution of the experimental spectra was performed using a Gaussian deconvolution process [32,33] in order to identify and assign all possible vibration bands. The proportion of every vibrational mode, was calculated from the area of each fitted band, divided by the total area of all bands. The bands, noted in alphabetic order and their corresponding assignments, are given in Table 4 . According to the Raman analysis, all samples expect TVK10 and TVK15, showed some low intensity asymmetric A bands, between 144 and 177cm−1. These bands can be attributed to the boson peak vibration which usually appears in Raman spectra of amorphous material. This is due to intermolecular interactions of complex structural units, which are weakly bonded to a disordered glass network and form the regions of inhomogeneity [2,34–37]. The shift of the boson area to higher frequency with increasing K+ concentration (≥7.5mol%), and the decrease of its relative area and subsequently disappearance for x=15, can be attributed to a reduction of the network connectivity. This agrees with the prediction that the boson peak is less intense and tends to disappear for fragile glasses [38]. As a criterion for the fragility, the shear modulus (S) of the glasses was determined from their Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio, as reported by the Makishima and Makenzie's theory [39]. The obtained values are listed on Table 1. This analysis showed that the TVK15 sample has the lowest shear modulus, and therefore is most fragile composition. Most of the Raman peaks of the glasses observed at ~204–339cm−1 (band B) are attributed to vibrations of trigonal pyramidal TeO3 groups overlapped with VOV and/or VOTe vibrations [40]. The intense band B in TVK5 and TVK15 samples could be the reason for the higher VO value reported in these compositions, as seen in Table 1. In the intermediate region, the band C1 (Fig. 4), centered in the 440–485cm−1 range, can be assigned to symmetric bending and stretching vibrations of Te–exOeq–Te linkages in the TeO4 tbp continuous network [10]. For the TVK5 glass, a band with low intensity, around 512cm−1 (C2), can also be noticed and associated with the structural changes of the TeO units or with the increase of OVO bonds [41]. In the high-wavenumber region ≥600cm−1, the bands noted as D1 and D2, were observed at, 604 to 648cm−1, and at, 665 to 689cm−1, respectively. According to Sekiya et al. [18], the band D1 can be assigned to the vibration of TeO4 tetragonal bipyramids continuous network and the band D2 to the antisymmetric vibrations of various TeOTe linkages with different TeO bond lengths: Te(4) eqOax Te(4), Te(3+1) O…Te(3+1), Te(3) O…Te(3+1), Te(4)–eqO…Te(3+1), Te(4) axOTe(3+1) and Te(4) axOTe(3) [42]. The Raman band E, centered at ~ 770cm−1, corresponds to the symmetric stretching mode of TeO bonds between tellurium and bridging oxygen (BO) in the [TeO3] and/or [TeO3+δ] units. From Table 4 and Fig. 4, it is clear that there is no evidence of band E in the 7.5 ≤ x ≤ 15 range. The absence of this band could be related with the structural change previously suggested on the VM analysis of these samples. The formation of TeO3 and/or TeO3+δ structural units on the glass network might result in a bulkier network, which could explain the increased VM values in the 0 ≤ x ≤ 5 samples. Oppositely, when the formation of these units is hindered, the molar volume of the samples decreases. The appearance of the low intense D2 band in the TVK7.5 sample, which appears centered at higher wavenumber (689cm−1) in comparison with other compositions, can be a verification of the tellurium coordination change from [TeO4] tbp to [TeO3] tp [10]. The disappearance of the band E in the TVK10 spectra is accompanied by the increase of band D1, resulting in asymmetric vibrations of TeO4 trigonal bipyramids [12]. Such a structural change, associated with the formation of bridging oxygen which introduces stronger covalent bonds, makes the composition stronger as manifested by the significant increase in its density value (Table 1). Knowing that there is a strenuous modification for 0 ≤ x<7.5 (Table 4 and Fig. 2), it is revealed in Fig. 4(b, c) and Table 4, that the band E is hindered when the K2O content in the glass network increases from x=7.5 up to x=15mol%. Moreover, the Te polyhedron structure tends to shift from TeO3 to TeO3 +δ, until TeO4 is reached [10]. As for the vanadium related vibrations, the band F seen in the range of 807 to 910cm−1, is due to VOV or OVO stretching vibration in metavanadate chains [43]. While the band G which ranges from 977cm−1 to 1132cm−1, can be associated to VO vibrations in VO5 tetragonal pyramid [10,15,43]. The recognition of VO4 functional groups (band F) in the glasses, indicates the existence of NBO bonds, while the presence of VO5 functional groups (band G) shows existence of bridging oxygen bonds [14]. From the relative peak areas of the VO4 and VO5 structural groups, the ratio of BO in vanadium related vibrations (RA) was determined using the relation: (3) R A %=A V O 4 A V O 4 + A V O 5 where A VO 4 represents the area of the fitted Raman band regarding the VO4 units (band F), and A VO 5 the area of the bands assigned to VO5 structural units (bands C2 and G). The dependence of the RA ratio on the potassium content is shown in 5. As seen in Fig. 5 , the value of RA decreases and reaches its minimum at x=5%, revealing an increment of VO5 units for the glasses with low content of network modifier (K2O). On the other hand, for greater K2O concentration (7.5 ≤ x ≤ 15), as it can be seen in Table 4, a significantly larger number of VO4 groups are formed. Also, when increasing K2O concentration from x=7.5% up to x=15%, the number of VO5 units decreases, and hence RA increases, which reveals the transformation of VO5 to VO4 units. Moreover, the TeO3 and TeO3+δ units formed in the in the 0 ≤ x ≤ 5 glasses' network, could also lead to a greater number of vanadium ions acting as network formers. This decreases the amount of network modifiers in the network, which could also justify the reduced number of NBO for 0 ≤ x ≤ 5. According with Khattak et al. [44], V2O5 can be formed from isolated orthovanadate structures (4 NBO and zero BO per VO4 tetrahedron), pyrovanadate structures (3 NBO and 1 BO per VO4 tetrahedron), metavanadate structures (2 NBO and 2 BO per VO4 tetrahedron), and VO5 polyhedral structures (single NBO and 4 BO). It has also been observed for B2O3–Li2O–V2O5 glasses, that the predominance of VO4 tetrahedra structural units in the glass network induces an increased number of four coordinated boron atoms in the network, with the detriment of non-bridging oxygen atoms [45]. The ratio of VO4 units could also affect the electrical behavior of the compositions, as discussed in next section.
3.5 Impedance analysis and DC conductivity 3.5.1 Impedance analysis The complex diagrams of Z″(Ω) vs Z′(Ω), Nyquist plots, obtained at room temperature, are given in Fig. 6 . For all samples, the high frequency impedance plot exhibits a single distorted semicircle, which is characteristic of the homogeneity of the glasses [10], and confirms that the materials correspond to a single phase. In addition, for the samples with 0 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, at lower frequency this semicircle is followed by a straight line (or tending to another arc in the TVK5 glass). The observed spike diminishes for samples containing higher K2O content. The presence of an inclined spike (and arc) (Fig. 6a) on the lower frequency side of the semicircle, results from ionic adsorption and accumulation at the interface with the blocking electrode, as well as charge transfer [10]. Therefore, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, the conductivity is assumed as mainly ionic. According to the Nyquist spectra of the samples, with higher K2O content, the conduction mechanism is believed to be electronic. In order to get a better understanding of the dielectric relaxation of the samples, the frequency dependence of the imaginary part of the impedance (Z″), was studied. The inset of Fig. 6(a, b) shows the Z″ values (at 300K) of all samples, along with their fit using Havriliak–Negami function through Winfit software from Novocontrol. The obtained fitting parameters are shown in Table 5 . The analysis of these, confirms that all relaxations follow a Cole-Cole behavior (α=1), as evidenced by the shape of the Nyquist plots. In these plots, the overall measured complex impedance can be expressed as the superposition of the intrinsic impedance (bulk contribution described by semicircles) and a dispersive capacitance contribution describing electrode polarization effects at low frequencies. As it can be seen in Fig. 6(b), the Z″ values of TVK15 are significantly larger than that of the remaining samples. This results from the substantial decrease of the Ɛ″ values of this sample, as reported in Table 6 . Moreover, the Nyquist plot of the TVK15 glass does not reveal a spike profile at lower frequencies, suggesting a reduced influence from the sample-electrode interface, or that the superior value of Z″ is masking the electrode polarization contribution. Additionally, from Table 5, one can also see that the relaxation time (τ) decreases from sample TVK0 till TVK5, and afterwards, starts to increase until TVK15 sample, which presented an τ about 1000x greater than that of the TVK0 glass. 3.5.2 DC electrical conduction, relationship between activation energy and mean V-ion spacing At temperatures above θD (θD=2TD: Debye temperature), glasses with high content of TMO are known to exhibit a small polaronic hopping (SPH) type conduction, as suggested by Mott and Holstein [6,21,22]. Electron–phonon interaction with the surrounding network provides sufficient energy for the hopping process between sites of multivalent transition ions, and in this case the SPH conductivity can be described by the following equation [6,21,22]: (4) σ dc T=σ o T exp − Ea k B T where Ea is the activation energy for the hopping, kB is the Boltzmann's constant and σo the pre-exponential factor, which can be expressed as: (5) σ o=ν o . N . e 2 R V 2 C V 1 − C V k B exp − 2 αR with ν o=Θ D k B h the optical phonon frequency in the magnitude order of 1013 Hz, RV the mean spacing between the V ions, CV (given by V4+/Vtot) the ratio between the amount of reduced transition metal ions and total transition metal ions, and N the transition metal ion's density. Finally, α represents the tunneling factor (ratio of the wave function decay), so that exp(-αR) gives electron overlap integral between sites [6,21,22]. The Ln(σ.T) vs 1000/T curves of the glasses were made according to the Eq.(4), and can be seen in Fig. 7 . The data was found to be linear at temperatures above θD, namely, between 220K and 235K, depending on the composition, and non-linear for lower temperatures due to the changeover in the electrical conduction from small polaronic hopping to variable range hopping [6]. The electrical behavior of the samples below θD was not investigated in this paper. The values of the dc activation energies, Ea, shown in Table 6, were determined from the slope of the linear fitting. The activation energy values of the present glasses were found to lie between 36.09 and 44.29kJ/mol. These activation energy values are smaller than the ones reported in the xNa2O–(35–x)V2O5–65TeO2 [14] and 0.5[xAg2O–(1–x)V2O5]–0.5TeO2 glassy systems [22]. Fig. 7 shows isothermal variations in conductivity as a function of the composition. For the TVK0 glass, the phonon assisted polaronic migration, between V+4 and V+5 sites, which goes through the bridging oxygen channels, is responsible for electrical conductivity [6]. The behavior of the dc conductivity (Fig. 7 and Table 6) and activation energy (Table 6) suggest that, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5mol%, the electrical conduction is due to both, SPH between V-ions, and K+ mobility in the glass network. Moreover, the polaronic and ionic conductivities are not separated. In this K2O content range, there is a competition between the polaronic and ionic contribution for the electrical conduction. This is associated with a superiority of the ionic conductivity which is more pronounced in x=7.5. The increased activation energy and decreased conductivity, for K2O contents above 7.5mol%, show the predominance of the polaronic contribution in conduction mechanism. Therefore, for x>7.5mol%, a switch in the predominant conduction mechanism from ionic to polaronic can be observed. Some studies on different glass systems such as lithium vanadate tellurite [10,21] and telluro-vanadate glasses containing Ag2O [22,46], have also reported a transition in the conduction mechanism. Furthermore, Ea depends on the mean transition metal ions spacing, namely, V-ions spacing, as reported in other telluro-vanadate glasses [6,10,21,22,46]. In order to obtain Ea-R relation, the V-ion and K-ion densities were calculated using the following equations: (6) N V − ion=2 ρ . x V 2 O 5 M V 2 O 5 . N A (7) N K − ion=2 ρ . x K 2 O M V 2 O 5 . N A where xi=V2O5, K2O is the mole fraction of V2O5 or K2O, Mi=V2O5, K2O is the molecular weight of V2O5 or K2O, ρ is density and NA is the Avogadro constant. The relationship between Ni and Ri (mean ion spacing) is generally described as following [24]: (8) R i=1 N i 1 3 i=V , K The calculated values of Ni and Ri are summarized in Table 6. The pre-exponential term, as function of the activation energy of the glasses, is plotted in Fig. 8 . The σo values were evaluated using the experimental results, namely, the intercept of the Ln(σT) vs 1000/T curves at 1000 T=0 . The results show a linear dependence, as predicted by the Meyer–Neldel model (or compensation law) [46]: (9) ln σ 0=a . E a + b where a and b are constants to be determined. In the two zones previously defined, two different behaviors for this rule are found: in the ionic domain (Zone 1, 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5), the parameter a is positive (also known as the Meyer–Neldel rule), whereas in the electronic/polaronic domain (Zone 2, x=0 and 7.5<x ≤ 15), a is negative (anti-Meyer–Neldel rule). The same behavior was observed by Montani et al. [46] in silver vanadium tellurite glasses. 3.5.3 Structure–conductivity relationship In order to have a better knowledge about the electrical properties of the glasses which contain alkali oxides, one can express the conductivity's variation, as a function of the composition, using cation-polaron correlation effect [47,48]. Based on the data provided from the Raman spectrum of the TVK2.5 glass, this effect can be modeled as the following, positive specie, such as K+ ion, attract the mobile electron (or polaron formed by its capture by a V5+ ion). Such cation–polaron pairs tend to move together as neutral entities. The transfer of such pairs will not lead to any net displacement of electric charge, therefore, this process does not contribute to the electrical conductivity [49]. At the same time, when the K2O content increases, the separation between any unpaired polarons increases, and RV increases (Table 6). Thus, the initial addition of K2O would decrease the polaronic conductivity [47]. Further addition of K2O (5mol%) leads to an increase of the NBO concentration, a strong decrease of V4+ and a preferential four-fold coordination of the V5+ ion, as seen in Table 4 and Fig. 5. The Raman Spectra shows that the addition of K2O disrupts the TeOTe, TeOV and VOV bonds, which forms non bridging groups. These NBOs restrict the ease of intervalence electron transfer, and thus, reduce electron mobility [47,48]. Therefore, cationic conductivity begins to increase as the K2O content increases. Eventually, the optimum situation is achieved by the TVK7.5 glass, where sufficient numbers of trapping polarons (V+4) are present and accompanied by adequate number of K+ ions. At this point, the polaronic conductivity begins to dominate because the distance between vanadium ions diminishes, as shown in Table 6 with the conductivity increase and activation energy decrease. Ultimately, as the K2O content raises up to 15mol%, the glass structure becomes more open and the greater formation of NBOs increases the jump distance between V hopping sites, resulting in a decrease of the conductivity [43,44]. In this region the number of V4+ is greater than the number of cations, and therefore, the polaronic conductivity increases. It can be suggested that, the increase of the K2O content, leads to a significant formation of V4+ and spontaneous reduction of V5+, which assists the increment of the electronic conductivity. The contribution of electronic and ionic conductivity in the conduction mechanism is not only governed by alkali content. In order to obtain a high ionic conductivity, a high charge carrier is needed. However in these glasses, a superior number of V4+ instead of K+ ions, can hinder the cationic contribution and increase the influence of polaronic contribution.

Xrd Patterns:
The XRD patterns of the samples, plotted in Fig. 1 , showed no crystalline phases, which is characteristic of the vitreous state of the glasses. However, as seen in Fig. 1, the maximum of the broad diffuse scattering, at 2θ–26°, shows some fluctuation with increasing concentration of potassium oxide in the glasses. The 2θ maximum position of each sample, is shown in Table 1 and Fig. 2 . The changes in the 2θ maximum position of the amorphous peak, can be related to a variation in the length of TeO and VO short range bonds [29], and therefore, one can expect some structural changes in the TVKx glasses. It was also reported, in CuO–TeO2–B2O3 and CuO–TeO2–B2O3 glasses, a shift towards higher 2θ values indicating a shortening of the TeO bond length [29].

Density, Molar Volume And Oxygen Packing Density:
The obtained values for the density, ρ, and molar volume, VM, of the TeO2–V2O5–K2O glasses, are given in Table 1. The density of the glasses was found to be in the range of 2.95–3.50g.cm−3. These values are close to the density found in tellurite vanadate lithium glasses [21], and lower than the ones measured for xNa2O–(35–x)V2O5–65TeO2 [14] and 0.5[xAg2O–(1–x)V2O5]–0.5TeO2 glasses [22]. The variations observed in the glasses' density, as function of composition, may be associated with the structural changes resulting from different K2O concentration.
The molar volume of the glasses also changes with the K2O concentration (Fig. 2 and Table 1). The changes in VM for tellurite–vanadate glasses doped with metal oxides (MO), can be related with either, the network modification, the change in MO bond length, or, the difference between the molar volume of each component oxide [14]. The KO bond length (r=2.32 Å) in K2O [30], is larger than the bond length of both, TeO (r=1.98 Å) [15], and VO (r=1.83 Å) in V2O5 [15]. However, the volume occupied by a VO5 structural unit is larger than that of the K2O [15].
The variation of the molar volume of the TVKx glasses, as function of x, can be divided into three regions as illustrated in Fig. 2 and Table 1. In the first region, with K2O content up to 5mol%, VM sharply increases due to the formation of excess free volume and the glass structure becomes more open. In the second region, 5<x ≤ 10mol%, the molar volume drastically decreases, which can be taken as a sign of a structural change in the glasses [14]. Finally, for TVK15, VM gradually increases as seen in Table 1. Table 1 also shows that the decrease rate in the molecular weight, is smaller than the variation rate verified in the density of the samples. On the other hand, the cause for the ρ and VM changes might also be related with other complex reasons. For instance, it was already reported that, the density of Li2O–SiO2 and Li2O–GeO2 binary glasses, increases with the addition of Li2O content, to the detriment of the heavier component. The former has been attributed to the formation of denser structural units, while the origin of the latter is known as the germinate anomaly and is still being investigated [15].
The oxygen molar volume values, VO, were calculated by [31]: (1) V O=∑ x i M i ρ . 1 ∑ x i n i where xi and Mi, are, the molar fraction and the molecular weight of each component, respectively. The density of the sample is represented by the Greek letter ρ, and ni is the number of oxygen atoms in each correspondent oxide.
The VO values of the samples are listed in Table 1. The observed increase in VO, for K2O ≤ 5mol%, can be related with the formation of bonds such as VOV, TeOV and OVO. The oxygen ions in the mixed TeOV and VOV linkages are more polarized than that of the TeOTe linkages. This is owed to the higher field intensity of V5+ ions (1.33 Å−2), in respect to the field intensity of Te4+ ions (0.71 Å−2) (Table 2 ) [28]. This yields a more compact packing of the oxygen ions. Further substitution of V2O5 (5 ≤ x<15mol%) by K2O, yields a less tightly packing of the glass network. As the K+ ions are introduced into the glass network, since they have lower field intensity (0.13 Å−2) than that of the V5+ ions (1.33 Å−2), the degradation of Te–O–V, V–O–V and O–V–O linkages occurs.
The oxygen packing density values (OPD), were calculated using the density (ρ) and composition values by applying the following formula [30]: (2) OPD=1000 C . ρ m where C is the number of oxygen atoms per each composition, and m represents the mass.
As one can see in Table 1, the OPD values of glasses show a non-linear trend with x, and were found to vary from 69.88 to 57.64 mol.L−1. This behavior can be explained with the increased or decreased number of oxygen atoms per unit composition, which results in greater or fewer linkages in the glass network, respectively [30].

Dsc Spectra:
The DSC patterns of the glasses, TVK0, TVK5, TVK10 and TVK15, are displayed in Fig. 3 , and their thermal parameters in Table 3 . The results shown in Fig. 3 indicate the presence of one endothermic phenomenon, in the temperature range of 239–242°C, and one exothermic phenomenon, around 340–487°C. The first corresponds to the glass transition temperature (TG) of the samples, whereas the latter should be related with a first crystallization temperature (TC) of the glasses. Usually, for the evaluation of the thermal stability of glasses, the difference between TX and TG, where TX is the onset of crystallization temperature, or the difference between TC and TG, criterion is applied. Higher values of this criterion usually correspond to a higher thermal stability and glass-forming ability. The results reveal that the glass stability of the samples ranges from 102 to 248°C. While the TG values of the samples are similar, the crystallization temperature of glass TVK0 is smaller than that of the remaining and therefore this sample has the smallest thermal stability. Nevertheless, its value is still greater than 100°C. The addition of K2O to the system composition, acting as glass network modifier, should promote the ability of the system to form a glass structure and therefore a higher TC value was measured.

Raman Spectra:
The structural modifications of the 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O glassy system, observed by Raman spectroscopy performed at room temperature, are shown in Fig. 4 . Since the majority of the bands in the Raman spectra are broad and asymmetric and there are some shoulders evidenced, a deconvolution of the experimental spectra was performed using a Gaussian deconvolution process [32,33] in order to identify and assign all possible vibration bands.
The proportion of every vibrational mode, was calculated from the area of each fitted band, divided by the total area of all bands. The bands, noted in alphabetic order and their corresponding assignments, are given in Table 4 .
According to the Raman analysis, all samples expect TVK10 and TVK15, showed some low intensity asymmetric A bands, between 144 and 177cm−1. These bands can be attributed to the boson peak vibration which usually appears in Raman spectra of amorphous material. This is due to intermolecular interactions of complex structural units, which are weakly bonded to a disordered glass network and form the regions of inhomogeneity [2,34–37]. The shift of the boson area to higher frequency with increasing K+ concentration (≥7.5mol%), and the decrease of its relative area and subsequently disappearance for x=15, can be attributed to a reduction of the network connectivity. This agrees with the prediction that the boson peak is less intense and tends to disappear for fragile glasses [38]. As a criterion for the fragility, the shear modulus (S) of the glasses was determined from their Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio, as reported by the Makishima and Makenzie's theory [39]. The obtained values are listed on Table 1. This analysis showed that the TVK15 sample has the lowest shear modulus, and therefore is most fragile composition.
Most of the Raman peaks of the glasses observed at ~204–339cm−1 (band B) are attributed to vibrations of trigonal pyramidal TeO3 groups overlapped with VOV and/or VOTe vibrations [40]. The intense band B in TVK5 and TVK15 samples could be the reason for the higher VO value reported in these compositions, as seen in Table 1.
In the intermediate region, the band C1 (Fig. 4), centered in the 440–485cm−1 range, can be assigned to symmetric bending and stretching vibrations of Te–exOeq–Te linkages in the TeO4 tbp continuous network [10]. For the TVK5 glass, a band with low intensity, around 512cm−1 (C2), can also be noticed and associated with the structural changes of the TeO units or with the increase of OVO bonds [41].
In the high-wavenumber region ≥600cm−1, the bands noted as D1 and D2, were observed at, 604 to 648cm−1, and at, 665 to 689cm−1, respectively. According to Sekiya et al. [18], the band D1 can be assigned to the vibration of TeO4 tetragonal bipyramids continuous network and the band D2 to the antisymmetric vibrations of various TeOTe linkages with different TeO bond lengths: Te(4) eqOax Te(4), Te(3+1) O…Te(3+1), Te(3) O…Te(3+1), Te(4)–eqO…Te(3+1), Te(4) axOTe(3+1) and Te(4) axOTe(3) [42]. The Raman band E, centered at ~ 770cm−1, corresponds to the symmetric stretching mode of TeO bonds between tellurium and bridging oxygen (BO) in the [TeO3] and/or [TeO3+δ] units.
From Table 4 and Fig. 4, it is clear that there is no evidence of band E in the 7.5 ≤ x ≤ 15 range. The absence of this band could be related with the structural change previously suggested on the VM analysis of these samples. The formation of TeO3 and/or TeO3+δ structural units on the glass network might result in a bulkier network, which could explain the increased VM values in the 0 ≤ x ≤ 5 samples. Oppositely, when the formation of these units is hindered, the molar volume of the samples decreases. The appearance of the low intense D2 band in the TVK7.5 sample, which appears centered at higher wavenumber (689cm−1) in comparison with other compositions, can be a verification of the tellurium coordination change from [TeO4] tbp to [TeO3] tp [10]. The disappearance of the band E in the TVK10 spectra is accompanied by the increase of band D1, resulting in asymmetric vibrations of TeO4 trigonal bipyramids [12]. Such a structural change, associated with the formation of bridging oxygen which introduces stronger covalent bonds, makes the composition stronger as manifested by the significant increase in its density value (Table 1).
Knowing that there is a strenuous modification for 0 ≤ x<7.5 (Table 4 and Fig. 2), it is revealed in Fig. 4(b, c) and Table 4, that the band E is hindered when the K2O content in the glass network increases from x=7.5 up to x=15mol%. Moreover, the Te polyhedron structure tends to shift from TeO3 to TeO3 +δ, until TeO4 is reached [10].
As for the vanadium related vibrations, the band F seen in the range of 807 to 910cm−1, is due to VOV or OVO stretching vibration in metavanadate chains [43]. While the band G which ranges from 977cm−1 to 1132cm−1, can be associated to VO vibrations in VO5 tetragonal pyramid [10,15,43].
The recognition of VO4 functional groups (band F) in the glasses, indicates the existence of NBO bonds, while the presence of VO5 functional groups (band G) shows existence of bridging oxygen bonds [14]. From the relative peak areas of the VO4 and VO5 structural groups, the ratio of BO in vanadium related vibrations (RA) was determined using the relation: (3) R A %=A V O 4 A V O 4 + A V O 5 where A VO 4 represents the area of the fitted Raman band regarding the VO4 units (band F), and A VO 5 the area of the bands assigned to VO5 structural units (bands C2 and G). The dependence of the RA ratio on the potassium content is shown in 5.
As seen in Fig. 5 , the value of RA decreases and reaches its minimum at x=5%, revealing an increment of VO5 units for the glasses with low content of network modifier (K2O). On the other hand, for greater K2O concentration (7.5 ≤ x ≤ 15), as it can be seen in Table 4, a significantly larger number of VO4 groups are formed. Also, when increasing K2O concentration from x=7.5% up to x=15%, the number of VO5 units decreases, and hence RA increases, which reveals the transformation of VO5 to VO4 units. Moreover, the TeO3 and TeO3+δ units formed in the in the 0 ≤ x ≤ 5 glasses' network, could also lead to a greater number of vanadium ions acting as network formers. This decreases the amount of network modifiers in the network, which could also justify the reduced number of NBO for 0 ≤ x ≤ 5.
According with Khattak et al. [44], V2O5 can be formed from isolated orthovanadate structures (4 NBO and zero BO per VO4 tetrahedron), pyrovanadate structures (3 NBO and 1 BO per VO4 tetrahedron), metavanadate structures (2 NBO and 2 BO per VO4 tetrahedron), and VO5 polyhedral structures (single NBO and 4 BO).
It has also been observed for B2O3–Li2O–V2O5 glasses, that the predominance of VO4 tetrahedra structural units in the glass network induces an increased number of four coordinated boron atoms in the network, with the detriment of non-bridging oxygen atoms [45]. The ratio of VO4 units could also affect the electrical behavior of the compositions, as discussed in next section.

Impedance Analysis And Dc Conductivity:
3.5.1 Impedance analysis The complex diagrams of Z″(Ω) vs Z′(Ω), Nyquist plots, obtained at room temperature, are given in Fig. 6 . For all samples, the high frequency impedance plot exhibits a single distorted semicircle, which is characteristic of the homogeneity of the glasses [10], and confirms that the materials correspond to a single phase. In addition, for the samples with 0 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, at lower frequency this semicircle is followed by a straight line (or tending to another arc in the TVK5 glass). The observed spike diminishes for samples containing higher K2O content. The presence of an inclined spike (and arc) (Fig. 6a) on the lower frequency side of the semicircle, results from ionic adsorption and accumulation at the interface with the blocking electrode, as well as charge transfer [10]. Therefore, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, the conductivity is assumed as mainly ionic. According to the Nyquist spectra of the samples, with higher K2O content, the conduction mechanism is believed to be electronic. In order to get a better understanding of the dielectric relaxation of the samples, the frequency dependence of the imaginary part of the impedance (Z″), was studied. The inset of Fig. 6(a, b) shows the Z″ values (at 300K) of all samples, along with their fit using Havriliak–Negami function through Winfit software from Novocontrol. The obtained fitting parameters are shown in Table 5 . The analysis of these, confirms that all relaxations follow a Cole-Cole behavior (α=1), as evidenced by the shape of the Nyquist plots. In these plots, the overall measured complex impedance can be expressed as the superposition of the intrinsic impedance (bulk contribution described by semicircles) and a dispersive capacitance contribution describing electrode polarization effects at low frequencies. As it can be seen in Fig. 6(b), the Z″ values of TVK15 are significantly larger than that of the remaining samples. This results from the substantial decrease of the Ɛ″ values of this sample, as reported in Table 6 . Moreover, the Nyquist plot of the TVK15 glass does not reveal a spike profile at lower frequencies, suggesting a reduced influence from the sample-electrode interface, or that the superior value of Z″ is masking the electrode polarization contribution. Additionally, from Table 5, one can also see that the relaxation time (τ) decreases from sample TVK0 till TVK5, and afterwards, starts to increase until TVK15 sample, which presented an τ about 1000x greater than that of the TVK0 glass.
3.5.2 DC electrical conduction, relationship between activation energy and mean V-ion spacing At temperatures above θD (θD=2TD: Debye temperature), glasses with high content of TMO are known to exhibit a small polaronic hopping (SPH) type conduction, as suggested by Mott and Holstein [6,21,22]. Electron–phonon interaction with the surrounding network provides sufficient energy for the hopping process between sites of multivalent transition ions, and in this case the SPH conductivity can be described by the following equation [6,21,22]: (4) σ dc T=σ o T exp − Ea k B T where Ea is the activation energy for the hopping, kB is the Boltzmann's constant and σo the pre-exponential factor, which can be expressed as: (5) σ o=ν o . N . e 2 R V 2 C V 1 − C V k B exp − 2 αR with ν o=Θ D k B h the optical phonon frequency in the magnitude order of 1013 Hz, RV the mean spacing between the V ions, CV (given by V4+/Vtot) the ratio between the amount of reduced transition metal ions and total transition metal ions, and N the transition metal ion's density. Finally, α represents the tunneling factor (ratio of the wave function decay), so that exp(-αR) gives electron overlap integral between sites [6,21,22]. The Ln(σ.T) vs 1000/T curves of the glasses were made according to the Eq.(4), and can be seen in Fig. 7 . The data was found to be linear at temperatures above θD, namely, between 220K and 235K, depending on the composition, and non-linear for lower temperatures due to the changeover in the electrical conduction from small polaronic hopping to variable range hopping [6]. The electrical behavior of the samples below θD was not investigated in this paper. The values of the dc activation energies, Ea, shown in Table 6, were determined from the slope of the linear fitting. The activation energy values of the present glasses were found to lie between 36.09 and 44.29kJ/mol. These activation energy values are smaller than the ones reported in the xNa2O–(35–x)V2O5–65TeO2 [14] and 0.5[xAg2O–(1–x)V2O5]–0.5TeO2 glassy systems [22]. Fig. 7 shows isothermal variations in conductivity as a function of the composition. For the TVK0 glass, the phonon assisted polaronic migration, between V+4 and V+5 sites, which goes through the bridging oxygen channels, is responsible for electrical conductivity [6]. The behavior of the dc conductivity (Fig. 7 and Table 6) and activation energy (Table 6) suggest that, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5mol%, the electrical conduction is due to both, SPH between V-ions, and K+ mobility in the glass network. Moreover, the polaronic and ionic conductivities are not separated. In this K2O content range, there is a competition between the polaronic and ionic contribution for the electrical conduction. This is associated with a superiority of the ionic conductivity which is more pronounced in x=7.5. The increased activation energy and decreased conductivity, for K2O contents above 7.5mol%, show the predominance of the polaronic contribution in conduction mechanism. Therefore, for x>7.5mol%, a switch in the predominant conduction mechanism from ionic to polaronic can be observed. Some studies on different glass systems such as lithium vanadate tellurite [10,21] and telluro-vanadate glasses containing Ag2O [22,46], have also reported a transition in the conduction mechanism. Furthermore, Ea depends on the mean transition metal ions spacing, namely, V-ions spacing, as reported in other telluro-vanadate glasses [6,10,21,22,46]. In order to obtain Ea-R relation, the V-ion and K-ion densities were calculated using the following equations: (6) N V − ion=2 ρ . x V 2 O 5 M V 2 O 5 . N A (7) N K − ion=2 ρ . x K 2 O M V 2 O 5 . N A where xi=V2O5, K2O is the mole fraction of V2O5 or K2O, Mi=V2O5, K2O is the molecular weight of V2O5 or K2O, ρ is density and NA is the Avogadro constant. The relationship between Ni and Ri (mean ion spacing) is generally described as following [24]: (8) R i=1 N i 1 3 i=V , K The calculated values of Ni and Ri are summarized in Table 6. The pre-exponential term, as function of the activation energy of the glasses, is plotted in Fig. 8 . The σo values were evaluated using the experimental results, namely, the intercept of the Ln(σT) vs 1000/T curves at 1000 T=0 . The results show a linear dependence, as predicted by the Meyer–Neldel model (or compensation law) [46]: (9) ln σ 0=a . E a + b where a and b are constants to be determined. In the two zones previously defined, two different behaviors for this rule are found: in the ionic domain (Zone 1, 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5), the parameter a is positive (also known as the Meyer–Neldel rule), whereas in the electronic/polaronic domain (Zone 2, x=0 and 7.5<x ≤ 15), a is negative (anti-Meyer–Neldel rule). The same behavior was observed by Montani et al. [46] in silver vanadium tellurite glasses.
3.5.3 Structure–conductivity relationship In order to have a better knowledge about the electrical properties of the glasses which contain alkali oxides, one can express the conductivity's variation, as a function of the composition, using cation-polaron correlation effect [47,48]. Based on the data provided from the Raman spectrum of the TVK2.5 glass, this effect can be modeled as the following, positive specie, such as K+ ion, attract the mobile electron (or polaron formed by its capture by a V5+ ion). Such cation–polaron pairs tend to move together as neutral entities. The transfer of such pairs will not lead to any net displacement of electric charge, therefore, this process does not contribute to the electrical conductivity [49]. At the same time, when the K2O content increases, the separation between any unpaired polarons increases, and RV increases (Table 6). Thus, the initial addition of K2O would decrease the polaronic conductivity [47]. Further addition of K2O (5mol%) leads to an increase of the NBO concentration, a strong decrease of V4+ and a preferential four-fold coordination of the V5+ ion, as seen in Table 4 and Fig. 5. The Raman Spectra shows that the addition of K2O disrupts the TeOTe, TeOV and VOV bonds, which forms non bridging groups. These NBOs restrict the ease of intervalence electron transfer, and thus, reduce electron mobility [47,48]. Therefore, cationic conductivity begins to increase as the K2O content increases. Eventually, the optimum situation is achieved by the TVK7.5 glass, where sufficient numbers of trapping polarons (V+4) are present and accompanied by adequate number of K+ ions. At this point, the polaronic conductivity begins to dominate because the distance between vanadium ions diminishes, as shown in Table 6 with the conductivity increase and activation energy decrease. Ultimately, as the K2O content raises up to 15mol%, the glass structure becomes more open and the greater formation of NBOs increases the jump distance between V hopping sites, resulting in a decrease of the conductivity [43,44]. In this region the number of V4+ is greater than the number of cations, and therefore, the polaronic conductivity increases. It can be suggested that, the increase of the K2O content, leads to a significant formation of V4+ and spontaneous reduction of V5+, which assists the increment of the electronic conductivity. The contribution of electronic and ionic conductivity in the conduction mechanism is not only governed by alkali content. In order to obtain a high ionic conductivity, a high charge carrier is needed. However in these glasses, a superior number of V4+ instead of K+ ions, can hinder the cationic contribution and increase the influence of polaronic contribution.

Impedance Analysis:
The complex diagrams of Z″(Ω) vs Z′(Ω), Nyquist plots, obtained at room temperature, are given in Fig. 6 . For all samples, the high frequency impedance plot exhibits a single distorted semicircle, which is characteristic of the homogeneity of the glasses [10], and confirms that the materials correspond to a single phase.
In addition, for the samples with 0 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, at lower frequency this semicircle is followed by a straight line (or tending to another arc in the TVK5 glass). The observed spike diminishes for samples containing higher K2O content. The presence of an inclined spike (and arc) (Fig. 6a) on the lower frequency side of the semicircle, results from ionic adsorption and accumulation at the interface with the blocking electrode, as well as charge transfer [10]. Therefore, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, the conductivity is assumed as mainly ionic.
According to the Nyquist spectra of the samples, with higher K2O content, the conduction mechanism is believed to be electronic.
In order to get a better understanding of the dielectric relaxation of the samples, the frequency dependence of the imaginary part of the impedance (Z″), was studied. The inset of Fig. 6(a, b) shows the Z″ values (at 300K) of all samples, along with their fit using Havriliak–Negami function through Winfit software from Novocontrol. The obtained fitting parameters are shown in Table 5 . The analysis of these, confirms that all relaxations follow a Cole-Cole behavior (α=1), as evidenced by the shape of the Nyquist plots. In these plots, the overall measured complex impedance can be expressed as the superposition of the intrinsic impedance (bulk contribution described by semicircles) and a dispersive capacitance contribution describing electrode polarization effects at low frequencies.
As it can be seen in Fig. 6(b), the Z″ values of TVK15 are significantly larger than that of the remaining samples. This results from the substantial decrease of the Ɛ″ values of this sample, as reported in Table 6 . Moreover, the Nyquist plot of the TVK15 glass does not reveal a spike profile at lower frequencies, suggesting a reduced influence from the sample-electrode interface, or that the superior value of Z″ is masking the electrode polarization contribution.
Additionally, from Table 5, one can also see that the relaxation time (τ) decreases from sample TVK0 till TVK5, and afterwards, starts to increase until TVK15 sample, which presented an τ about 1000x greater than that of the TVK0 glass.

Dc Electrical Conduction, Relationship Between Activation Energy And Mean V-ion Spacing:
At temperatures above θD (θD=2TD: Debye temperature), glasses with high content of TMO are known to exhibit a small polaronic hopping (SPH) type conduction, as suggested by Mott and Holstein [6,21,22]. Electron–phonon interaction with the surrounding network provides sufficient energy for the hopping process between sites of multivalent transition ions, and in this case the SPH conductivity can be described by the following equation [6,21,22]: (4) σ dc T=σ o T exp − Ea k B T where Ea is the activation energy for the hopping, kB is the Boltzmann's constant and σo the pre-exponential factor, which can be expressed as: (5) σ o=ν o . N . e 2 R V 2 C V 1 − C V k B exp − 2 αR with ν o=Θ D k B h the optical phonon frequency in the magnitude order of 1013 Hz, RV the mean spacing between the V ions, CV (given by V4+/Vtot) the ratio between the amount of reduced transition metal ions and total transition metal ions, and N the transition metal ion's density. Finally, α represents the tunneling factor (ratio of the wave function decay), so that exp(-αR) gives electron overlap integral between sites [6,21,22].
The Ln(σ.T) vs 1000/T curves of the glasses were made according to the Eq.(4), and can be seen in Fig. 7 . The data was found to be linear at temperatures above θD, namely, between 220K and 235K, depending on the composition, and non-linear for lower temperatures due to the changeover in the electrical conduction from small polaronic hopping to variable range hopping [6]. The electrical behavior of the samples below θD was not investigated in this paper.
The values of the dc activation energies, Ea, shown in Table 6, were determined from the slope of the linear fitting. The activation energy values of the present glasses were found to lie between 36.09 and 44.29kJ/mol. These activation energy values are smaller than the ones reported in the xNa2O–(35–x)V2O5–65TeO2 [14] and 0.5[xAg2O–(1–x)V2O5]–0.5TeO2 glassy systems [22].
Fig. 7 shows isothermal variations in conductivity as a function of the composition. For the TVK0 glass, the phonon assisted polaronic migration, between V+4 and V+5 sites, which goes through the bridging oxygen channels, is responsible for electrical conductivity [6].
The behavior of the dc conductivity (Fig. 7 and Table 6) and activation energy (Table 6) suggest that, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5mol%, the electrical conduction is due to both, SPH between V-ions, and K+ mobility in the glass network. Moreover, the polaronic and ionic conductivities are not separated. In this K2O content range, there is a competition between the polaronic and ionic contribution for the electrical conduction. This is associated with a superiority of the ionic conductivity which is more pronounced in x=7.5. The increased activation energy and decreased conductivity, for K2O contents above 7.5mol%, show the predominance of the polaronic contribution in conduction mechanism. Therefore, for x>7.5mol%, a switch in the predominant conduction mechanism from ionic to polaronic can be observed.
Some studies on different glass systems such as lithium vanadate tellurite [10,21] and telluro-vanadate glasses containing Ag2O [22,46], have also reported a transition in the conduction mechanism.
Furthermore, Ea depends on the mean transition metal ions spacing, namely, V-ions spacing, as reported in other telluro-vanadate glasses [6,10,21,22,46]. In order to obtain Ea-R relation, the V-ion and K-ion densities were calculated using the following equations: (6) N V − ion=2 ρ . x V 2 O 5 M V 2 O 5 . N A (7) N K − ion=2 ρ . x K 2 O M V 2 O 5 . N A where xi=V2O5, K2O is the mole fraction of V2O5 or K2O, Mi=V2O5, K2O is the molecular weight of V2O5 or K2O, ρ is density and NA is the Avogadro constant. The relationship between Ni and Ri (mean ion spacing) is generally described as following [24]: (8) R i=1 N i 1 3 i=V , K
The calculated values of Ni and Ri are summarized in Table 6. The pre-exponential term, as function of the activation energy of the glasses, is plotted in Fig. 8 . The σo values were evaluated using the experimental results, namely, the intercept of the Ln(σT) vs 1000/T curves at 1000 T=0 . The results show a linear dependence, as predicted by the Meyer–Neldel model (or compensation law) [46]: (9) ln σ 0=a . E a + b where a and b are constants to be determined. In the two zones previously defined, two different behaviors for this rule are found: in the ionic domain (Zone 1, 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5), the parameter a is positive (also known as the Meyer–Neldel rule), whereas in the electronic/polaronic domain (Zone 2, x=0 and 7.5<x ≤ 15), a is negative (anti-Meyer–Neldel rule). The same behavior was observed by Montani et al. [46] in silver vanadium tellurite glasses.

Structure–conductivity Relationship:
In order to have a better knowledge about the electrical properties of the glasses which contain alkali oxides, one can express the conductivity's variation, as a function of the composition, using cation-polaron correlation effect [47,48].
Based on the data provided from the Raman spectrum of the TVK2.5 glass, this effect can be modeled as the following, positive specie, such as K+ ion, attract the mobile electron (or polaron formed by its capture by a V5+ ion). Such cation–polaron pairs tend to move together as neutral entities. The transfer of such pairs will not lead to any net displacement of electric charge, therefore, this process does not contribute to the electrical conductivity [49].
At the same time, when the K2O content increases, the separation between any unpaired polarons increases, and RV increases (Table 6). Thus, the initial addition of K2O would decrease the polaronic conductivity [47]. Further addition of K2O (5mol%) leads to an increase of the NBO concentration, a strong decrease of V4+ and a preferential four-fold coordination of the V5+ ion, as seen in Table 4 and Fig. 5. The Raman Spectra shows that the addition of K2O disrupts the TeOTe, TeOV and VOV bonds, which forms non bridging groups. These NBOs restrict the ease of intervalence electron transfer, and thus, reduce electron mobility [47,48]. Therefore, cationic conductivity begins to increase as the K2O content increases. Eventually, the optimum situation is achieved by the TVK7.5 glass, where sufficient numbers of trapping polarons (V+4) are present and accompanied by adequate number of K+ ions. At this point, the polaronic conductivity begins to dominate because the distance between vanadium ions diminishes, as shown in Table 6 with the conductivity increase and activation energy decrease.
Ultimately, as the K2O content raises up to 15mol%, the glass structure becomes more open and the greater formation of NBOs increases the jump distance between V hopping sites, resulting in a decrease of the conductivity [43,44]. In this region the number of V4+ is greater than the number of cations, and therefore, the polaronic conductivity increases.
It can be suggested that, the increase of the K2O content, leads to a significant formation of V4+ and spontaneous reduction of V5+, which assists the increment of the electronic conductivity. The contribution of electronic and ionic conductivity in the conduction mechanism is not only governed by alkali content. In order to obtain a high ionic conductivity, a high charge carrier is needed. However in these glasses, a superior number of V4+ instead of K+ ions, can hinder the cationic contribution and increase the influence of polaronic contribution.

Conclusion:
The relationship between the structural properties and electrical behavior of the 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O glassy system, have been studied by XRD, density measuremnt, Raman spectroscopy, impedance spectroscopy, and dc electrical measurements.
The K-free sample (x=0) presents electronic conductivity resulting from electron hopping between the V4+ and V5+ sites. When increasing x in low concentration (x<7.5), the coordination of vanadium changes from four to five. Therefore, the formation of NBOs and the KV and TeK bonds promote ionic conduction.
With introduction of K2O in higher content (x>7.5), the creation of NBOs, due to gradual transformation from VO5 to VO4 structural units, leads to a bulkier network which results in an increased distance between V hopping sites. However, for these K2O contents, it is also observed a tendency to promote a network change from TeO3 to TeO4 structural units. Therefore, despite the high potassium content, the electronic contribution in the samples' conductivity increases. The observed behavior for the TVK7.5 glass, suggests that there is a change, from ions to electrons, on the dominant carrier species of the conductivity process.

Acknowledgement:
This work is funded by FEDER funds through the COMPETE 2020 Programme and National Funds through FCT — Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology under the project UID/CTM/50025/2013.

Body:
Nowadays, the number of studies on tellurium oxide based glasses increased, rather than that of the borate and silicate glasses. This interest on tellurite glasses is owed to their physical characteristics, such as, high glass forming ability, low glass transition temperature (TG), low melting-point, high thermal expansion coefficients, large third-order non-linear susceptibility, high refractive index, high infrared transmission, high dielectric constant, and low hygroscopic properties [1–8]. Furthermore, transition metal oxide (TMO) glasses, like TeO2–V2O5 compositions, can be extensively employed as cathode materials in solid state batteries due to their unique isotropic, flexible and low density structure [9–10]. Additionally, this type of compositions can also have application in gas sensors [11], memory switching [12], and thermoelectric devices [13].

Tellurium dioxide is a conditional glass former so that it is essential to add other components to achieve the glassy state under conventional quenching conditions. Therefore, glass forming agents or modifiers, such as, transition metal oxides or alkali oxides, are employed to enhance the tellurite glasses forming ability and stability [4]. Vanadate tellurite (TeO2-V2O5) glasses have attracted added interest, also due to its high rigidity and remarkable glass forming ability [14,15]. It is worth to mention that, the role and type of modifier oxides in the vitreous transition of tellurite melts, has a strong impact on the tellurite forming units.

The structure of tellurite glasses consist of [TeO4] trigonal bipyramids (tbp), [TeO3] trigonal pyramids (tp), and [TeO3+δ] polyhedra as main structural units. In the [TeO4] tbp unit, a lone pair of electrons occupies an equatorial site of the Te sp3d orbital. By analogy, in the [TeO3] tp, the lone pair occupies the apex of the tp sp3 orbital [16]. The concentration of the respective structural units is strongly affected by the glass composition, namely, by the type and concentration of network modifier, and or other components. When adding network forming oxides to TeO2, Te–O–Te bridges are broken and the concentration of [TeO4] tbp units decreases, while the concentration of [TeO3] tp units increases [16].

In a tellurite glass, the introduction of alkali oxides as modifiers, leads to the formation of different structural units at different alkali oxide contents [15–17]. The glasses with alkali content below 20% consist of a continuous network by sharing corners of TeO4 tbp. Consequently, TeO3+δ polyhedra are formed with one non-bridging oxygen (NBO). In glasses containing 20–30mol% of alkali oxide, a continuous network of TeO3 tp with NBOs is formed. While for glasses containing >30% alkali oxide, isolated structural units such as Te2O5 2− coexist in the continuous network [18].

V2O5 can be found in either four-fold coordinated (VO4 tetrahedron), or five-fold coordinated (VO5 trigonal bipyramid) structural units. The coordination number for V+4 is 5 because it cannot occupy tetrahedral sites [10,16]. In tellurite glasses, the extent of TeO4 tbp in comparison to TeO3 tp, and in vanadate glasses, the extent of VO4 tetrahedral in comparison to VO5 octahedral units, has been reported to influence the conductivity properties [6,10,19].

It is known that tellurite–vanadate binary and ternary glasses possess semiconducting behavior since the vanadium ions present two valence states (V4+ and V5+) [20,21]. The electrical conductivity is, therefore, owed to electrons hopping between these two states [20,21]. When these glasses are doped with alkali ions, like K+, the electrical conductivity might consist of mixed electronic and ionic, pure electronic, or pure ionic conduction, depending on the composition. There are several works regarding the electrical properties of tellurite–vanadate glasses containing silver [22] or alkali metals like Li [10,23] and Na [24]. According with [24] for the xNa2O–(1–x)V2O5–2TeO2 glassy system, the polaronic conductivity decreases steadily with the addition of Na+ ions in the range of 0.1<x<0.4. However, for an intermediate range 0.4<x<0.6, ionic conductivity becomes dominant causing total conductivity to increase. The conductivity decrease, in the range 0.1<x<0.4, was suggested to be due to the reduction of V2O5 which leads to the creation of NBO, while the conductivity increase, at 0.4<x<0.6, was attributed to ionic diffusion. This polaronic to ionic transition can be accompanied by structural changes [23]. Krins et al. [10] observed an mixed polaronic–ionic conduction in xLi2O–(1–x)(0.3V2O5–0.7TeO2) glasses where, for x=0.3, a transition from electronic to ionic conductivity, related with the decrease of the tellurium coordination from TeO4 to TeO3, was observed.

Up to date and from our research and knowledge, very few information is available on the structural and dc electrical characterization of tellurite–vanadate glasses containing potassium. Such studies are important as they provide valuable information on the structural changes which are responsible for the polaronic–ionic conduction transition, in the mixed conductive glasses. Thus, the present work aims to: 1) evaluate the influence of the K2O concentration on the structure of the glasses; 2) investigate the dc conductivity and polaronic–ionic contributions in the electrical conduction as a function of K2O content; 3) correlate the electrical and structural properties.

The samples 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O, with x=0, 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10 and 15mol%, were prepared by dry mixing 10 g high purity chemical (>99%) batches of TeO2, V2O5, and K2CO3. The samples will hereafter be termed as, TVK0, TVK2.5, TVK5, TVK7.5, TVK10, and TVK15, in agreement with the x value of each composition. The compounds were weighted with an accuracy of 0.1 mg and grounded in an agate mortar. The starting mixtures were placed in alumina crucibles and heated in an electrical furnace, with a 5K/min heating rate, up to 673K and maintained for 60min to complete the loss of carbonates. Afterwards, the samples were melted at 1173K for 30min. The melts were quenched into a polished steel mold and pressed by another steel block, at room temperature.

Immediately after quenching, the samples were annealed at 473K, for 2h, and then, slowly cooled inside the furnace to minimize the internal stresses resulting from quenching. The annealing temperature was chosen in agreement with the glass transition temperature Tg (508–515K) obtained from a previous work on similar glasses [25].

The X-ray diffraction patterns (XRD) were obtained at room temperature on a Philips X'Pert MPD diffractometer (CuKα radiation, λ=1.54056 Å) operating at 40kV, and 30mA.

The glass density, ρ, was determined on bulk samples by Archimedes' method using toluene as the immersion liquid. The molar volume, Vm, was calculated from the density data using the relation Vm=M/ρ, where M is the molecular weight of the glass given by: M=0.5 M Te O 2 + 50 − x M V 2 O 5 + x M K 2 O

The calorimetric studies of the samples were done using Differential Scanning Calorimeter (Perkin Elmer Pyris1-DSC) under dynamic N2 gas atmosphere (at a constant rate of 20cm3/min). All DSC measurements were performed using a heating rate of 12°C/min.

The Raman spectroscopy of bulk samples was carried out in a T64000 Jobin Yvon SPEX spectrometer, using an Ar laser (λ=532 nm) as excitation font. The spectra were obtained, in a back-scattering geometry, between 100 and 1200cm−1.

For the electrical measurements the opposite sides of the bulk samples, with a thickness of about 1mm, were painted with silver paste. The dc electrical conductivity (σdc) was measured in the temperature range 200–380K by the two probe method using a Keithley 617 programmable electrometer/source. Impedance spectroscopy measurements were performed at room temperature, between 102 Hz and 106 Hz, using an Agilent 4294A Network Analyzer in the Cp-Rp configuration [26–28].

The XRD patterns of the samples, plotted in Fig. 1 , showed no crystalline phases, which is characteristic of the vitreous state of the glasses. However, as seen in Fig. 1, the maximum of the broad diffuse scattering, at 2θ–26°, shows some fluctuation with increasing concentration of potassium oxide in the glasses. The 2θ maximum position of each sample, is shown in Table 1 and Fig. 2 . The changes in the 2θ maximum position of the amorphous peak, can be related to a variation in the length of TeO and VO short range bonds [29], and therefore, one can expect some structural changes in the TVKx glasses. It was also reported, in CuO–TeO2–B2O3 and CuO–TeO2–B2O3 glasses, a shift towards higher 2θ values indicating a shortening of the TeO bond length [29].

The obtained values for the density, ρ, and molar volume, VM, of the TeO2–V2O5–K2O glasses, are given in Table 1. The density of the glasses was found to be in the range of 2.95–3.50g.cm−3. These values are close to the density found in tellurite vanadate lithium glasses [21], and lower than the ones measured for xNa2O–(35–x)V2O5–65TeO2 [14] and 0.5[xAg2O–(1–x)V2O5]–0.5TeO2 glasses [22]. The variations observed in the glasses' density, as function of composition, may be associated with the structural changes resulting from different K2O concentration.

The molar volume of the glasses also changes with the K2O concentration (Fig. 2 and Table 1). The changes in VM for tellurite–vanadate glasses doped with metal oxides (MO), can be related with either, the network modification, the change in MO bond length, or, the difference between the molar volume of each component oxide [14]. The KO bond length (r=2.32 Å) in K2O [30], is larger than the bond length of both, TeO (r=1.98 Å) [15], and VO (r=1.83 Å) in V2O5 [15]. However, the volume occupied by a VO5 structural unit is larger than that of the K2O [15].

The variation of the molar volume of the TVKx glasses, as function of x, can be divided into three regions as illustrated in Fig. 2 and Table 1. In the first region, with K2O content up to 5mol%, VM sharply increases due to the formation of excess free volume and the glass structure becomes more open. In the second region, 5<x ≤ 10mol%, the molar volume drastically decreases, which can be taken as a sign of a structural change in the glasses [14]. Finally, for TVK15, VM gradually increases as seen in Table 1. Table 1 also shows that the decrease rate in the molecular weight, is smaller than the variation rate verified in the density of the samples. On the other hand, the cause for the ρ and VM changes might also be related with other complex reasons. For instance, it was already reported that, the density of Li2O–SiO2 and Li2O–GeO2 binary glasses, increases with the addition of Li2O content, to the detriment of the heavier component. The former has been attributed to the formation of denser structural units, while the origin of the latter is known as the germinate anomaly and is still being investigated [15].

The oxygen molar volume values, VO, were calculated by [31]: (1) V O=∑ x i M i ρ . 1 ∑ x i n i where xi and Mi, are, the molar fraction and the molecular weight of each component, respectively. The density of the sample is represented by the Greek letter ρ, and ni is the number of oxygen atoms in each correspondent oxide.

The VO values of the samples are listed in Table 1. The observed increase in VO, for K2O ≤ 5mol%, can be related with the formation of bonds such as VOV, TeOV and OVO. The oxygen ions in the mixed TeOV and VOV linkages are more polarized than that of the TeOTe linkages. This is owed to the higher field intensity of V5+ ions (1.33 Å−2), in respect to the field intensity of Te4+ ions (0.71 Å−2) (Table 2 ) [28]. This yields a more compact packing of the oxygen ions. Further substitution of V2O5 (5 ≤ x<15mol%) by K2O, yields a less tightly packing of the glass network. As the K+ ions are introduced into the glass network, since they have lower field intensity (0.13 Å−2) than that of the V5+ ions (1.33 Å−2), the degradation of Te–O–V, V–O–V and O–V–O linkages occurs.

The oxygen packing density values (OPD), were calculated using the density (ρ) and composition values by applying the following formula [30]: (2) OPD=1000 C . ρ m where C is the number of oxygen atoms per each composition, and m represents the mass.

As one can see in Table 1, the OPD values of glasses show a non-linear trend with x, and were found to vary from 69.88 to 57.64 mol.L−1. This behavior can be explained with the increased or decreased number of oxygen atoms per unit composition, which results in greater or fewer linkages in the glass network, respectively [30].

The DSC patterns of the glasses, TVK0, TVK5, TVK10 and TVK15, are displayed in Fig. 3 , and their thermal parameters in Table 3 . The results shown in Fig. 3 indicate the presence of one endothermic phenomenon, in the temperature range of 239–242°C, and one exothermic phenomenon, around 340–487°C. The first corresponds to the glass transition temperature (TG) of the samples, whereas the latter should be related with a first crystallization temperature (TC) of the glasses. Usually, for the evaluation of the thermal stability of glasses, the difference between TX and TG, where TX is the onset of crystallization temperature, or the difference between TC and TG, criterion is applied. Higher values of this criterion usually correspond to a higher thermal stability and glass-forming ability. The results reveal that the glass stability of the samples ranges from 102 to 248°C. While the TG values of the samples are similar, the crystallization temperature of glass TVK0 is smaller than that of the remaining and therefore this sample has the smallest thermal stability. Nevertheless, its value is still greater than 100°C. The addition of K2O to the system composition, acting as glass network modifier, should promote the ability of the system to form a glass structure and therefore a higher TC value was measured.

The structural modifications of the 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O glassy system, observed by Raman spectroscopy performed at room temperature, are shown in Fig. 4 . Since the majority of the bands in the Raman spectra are broad and asymmetric and there are some shoulders evidenced, a deconvolution of the experimental spectra was performed using a Gaussian deconvolution process [32,33] in order to identify and assign all possible vibration bands.

The proportion of every vibrational mode, was calculated from the area of each fitted band, divided by the total area of all bands. The bands, noted in alphabetic order and their corresponding assignments, are given in Table 4 .

According to the Raman analysis, all samples expect TVK10 and TVK15, showed some low intensity asymmetric A bands, between 144 and 177cm−1. These bands can be attributed to the boson peak vibration which usually appears in Raman spectra of amorphous material. This is due to intermolecular interactions of complex structural units, which are weakly bonded to a disordered glass network and form the regions of inhomogeneity [2,34–37]. The shift of the boson area to higher frequency with increasing K+ concentration (≥7.5mol%), and the decrease of its relative area and subsequently disappearance for x=15, can be attributed to a reduction of the network connectivity. This agrees with the prediction that the boson peak is less intense and tends to disappear for fragile glasses [38]. As a criterion for the fragility, the shear modulus (S) of the glasses was determined from their Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio, as reported by the Makishima and Makenzie's theory [39]. The obtained values are listed on Table 1. This analysis showed that the TVK15 sample has the lowest shear modulus, and therefore is most fragile composition.

Most of the Raman peaks of the glasses observed at ~204–339cm−1 (band B) are attributed to vibrations of trigonal pyramidal TeO3 groups overlapped with VOV and/or VOTe vibrations [40]. The intense band B in TVK5 and TVK15 samples could be the reason for the higher VO value reported in these compositions, as seen in Table 1.

In the intermediate region, the band C1 (Fig. 4), centered in the 440–485cm−1 range, can be assigned to symmetric bending and stretching vibrations of Te–exOeq–Te linkages in the TeO4 tbp continuous network [10]. For the TVK5 glass, a band with low intensity, around 512cm−1 (C2), can also be noticed and associated with the structural changes of the TeO units or with the increase of OVO bonds [41].

In the high-wavenumber region ≥600cm−1, the bands noted as D1 and D2, were observed at, 604 to 648cm−1, and at, 665 to 689cm−1, respectively. According to Sekiya et al. [18], the band D1 can be assigned to the vibration of TeO4 tetragonal bipyramids continuous network and the band D2 to the antisymmetric vibrations of various TeOTe linkages with different TeO bond lengths: Te(4) eqOax Te(4), Te(3+1) O…Te(3+1), Te(3) O…Te(3+1), Te(4)–eqO…Te(3+1), Te(4) axOTe(3+1) and Te(4) axOTe(3) [42]. The Raman band E, centered at ~ 770cm−1, corresponds to the symmetric stretching mode of TeO bonds between tellurium and bridging oxygen (BO) in the [TeO3] and/or [TeO3+δ] units.

From Table 4 and Fig. 4, it is clear that there is no evidence of band E in the 7.5 ≤ x ≤ 15 range. The absence of this band could be related with the structural change previously suggested on the VM analysis of these samples. The formation of TeO3 and/or TeO3+δ structural units on the glass network might result in a bulkier network, which could explain the increased VM values in the 0 ≤ x ≤ 5 samples. Oppositely, when the formation of these units is hindered, the molar volume of the samples decreases. The appearance of the low intense D2 band in the TVK7.5 sample, which appears centered at higher wavenumber (689cm−1) in comparison with other compositions, can be a verification of the tellurium coordination change from [TeO4] tbp to [TeO3] tp [10]. The disappearance of the band E in the TVK10 spectra is accompanied by the increase of band D1, resulting in asymmetric vibrations of TeO4 trigonal bipyramids [12]. Such a structural change, associated with the formation of bridging oxygen which introduces stronger covalent bonds, makes the composition stronger as manifested by the significant increase in its density value (Table 1).

Knowing that there is a strenuous modification for 0 ≤ x<7.5 (Table 4 and Fig. 2), it is revealed in Fig. 4(b, c) and Table 4, that the band E is hindered when the K2O content in the glass network increases from x=7.5 up to x=15mol%. Moreover, the Te polyhedron structure tends to shift from TeO3 to TeO3 +δ, until TeO4 is reached [10].

As for the vanadium related vibrations, the band F seen in the range of 807 to 910cm−1, is due to VOV or OVO stretching vibration in metavanadate chains [43]. While the band G which ranges from 977cm−1 to 1132cm−1, can be associated to VO vibrations in VO5 tetragonal pyramid [10,15,43].

The recognition of VO4 functional groups (band F) in the glasses, indicates the existence of NBO bonds, while the presence of VO5 functional groups (band G) shows existence of bridging oxygen bonds [14]. From the relative peak areas of the VO4 and VO5 structural groups, the ratio of BO in vanadium related vibrations (RA) was determined using the relation: (3) R A %=A V O 4 A V O 4 + A V O 5 where A VO 4 represents the area of the fitted Raman band regarding the VO4 units (band F), and A VO 5 the area of the bands assigned to VO5 structural units (bands C2 and G). The dependence of the RA ratio on the potassium content is shown in 5.

As seen in Fig. 5 , the value of RA decreases and reaches its minimum at x=5%, revealing an increment of VO5 units for the glasses with low content of network modifier (K2O). On the other hand, for greater K2O concentration (7.5 ≤ x ≤ 15), as it can be seen in Table 4, a significantly larger number of VO4 groups are formed. Also, when increasing K2O concentration from x=7.5% up to x=15%, the number of VO5 units decreases, and hence RA increases, which reveals the transformation of VO5 to VO4 units. Moreover, the TeO3 and TeO3+δ units formed in the in the 0 ≤ x ≤ 5 glasses' network, could also lead to a greater number of vanadium ions acting as network formers. This decreases the amount of network modifiers in the network, which could also justify the reduced number of NBO for 0 ≤ x ≤ 5.

According with Khattak et al. [44], V2O5 can be formed from isolated orthovanadate structures (4 NBO and zero BO per VO4 tetrahedron), pyrovanadate structures (3 NBO and 1 BO per VO4 tetrahedron), metavanadate structures (2 NBO and 2 BO per VO4 tetrahedron), and VO5 polyhedral structures (single NBO and 4 BO).

It has also been observed for B2O3–Li2O–V2O5 glasses, that the predominance of VO4 tetrahedra structural units in the glass network induces an increased number of four coordinated boron atoms in the network, with the detriment of non-bridging oxygen atoms [45]. The ratio of VO4 units could also affect the electrical behavior of the compositions, as discussed in next section.

The complex diagrams of Z″(Ω) vs Z′(Ω), Nyquist plots, obtained at room temperature, are given in Fig. 6 . For all samples, the high frequency impedance plot exhibits a single distorted semicircle, which is characteristic of the homogeneity of the glasses [10], and confirms that the materials correspond to a single phase.

In addition, for the samples with 0 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, at lower frequency this semicircle is followed by a straight line (or tending to another arc in the TVK5 glass). The observed spike diminishes for samples containing higher K2O content. The presence of an inclined spike (and arc) (Fig. 6a) on the lower frequency side of the semicircle, results from ionic adsorption and accumulation at the interface with the blocking electrode, as well as charge transfer [10]. Therefore, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5, the conductivity is assumed as mainly ionic.

According to the Nyquist spectra of the samples, with higher K2O content, the conduction mechanism is believed to be electronic.

In order to get a better understanding of the dielectric relaxation of the samples, the frequency dependence of the imaginary part of the impedance (Z″), was studied. The inset of Fig. 6(a, b) shows the Z″ values (at 300K) of all samples, along with their fit using Havriliak–Negami function through Winfit software from Novocontrol. The obtained fitting parameters are shown in Table 5 . The analysis of these, confirms that all relaxations follow a Cole-Cole behavior (α=1), as evidenced by the shape of the Nyquist plots. In these plots, the overall measured complex impedance can be expressed as the superposition of the intrinsic impedance (bulk contribution described by semicircles) and a dispersive capacitance contribution describing electrode polarization effects at low frequencies.

As it can be seen in Fig. 6(b), the Z″ values of TVK15 are significantly larger than that of the remaining samples. This results from the substantial decrease of the Ɛ″ values of this sample, as reported in Table 6 . Moreover, the Nyquist plot of the TVK15 glass does not reveal a spike profile at lower frequencies, suggesting a reduced influence from the sample-electrode interface, or that the superior value of Z″ is masking the electrode polarization contribution.

Additionally, from Table 5, one can also see that the relaxation time (τ) decreases from sample TVK0 till TVK5, and afterwards, starts to increase until TVK15 sample, which presented an τ about 1000x greater than that of the TVK0 glass.

At temperatures above θD (θD=2TD: Debye temperature), glasses with high content of TMO are known to exhibit a small polaronic hopping (SPH) type conduction, as suggested by Mott and Holstein [6,21,22]. Electron–phonon interaction with the surrounding network provides sufficient energy for the hopping process between sites of multivalent transition ions, and in this case the SPH conductivity can be described by the following equation [6,21,22]: (4) σ dc T=σ o T exp − Ea k B T where Ea is the activation energy for the hopping, kB is the Boltzmann's constant and σo the pre-exponential factor, which can be expressed as: (5) σ o=ν o . N . e 2 R V 2 C V 1 − C V k B exp − 2 αR with ν o=Θ D k B h the optical phonon frequency in the magnitude order of 1013 Hz, RV the mean spacing between the V ions, CV (given by V4+/Vtot) the ratio between the amount of reduced transition metal ions and total transition metal ions, and N the transition metal ion's density. Finally, α represents the tunneling factor (ratio of the wave function decay), so that exp(-αR) gives electron overlap integral between sites [6,21,22].

The Ln(σ.T) vs 1000/T curves of the glasses were made according to the Eq.(4), and can be seen in Fig. 7 . The data was found to be linear at temperatures above θD, namely, between 220K and 235K, depending on the composition, and non-linear for lower temperatures due to the changeover in the electrical conduction from small polaronic hopping to variable range hopping [6]. The electrical behavior of the samples below θD was not investigated in this paper.

The values of the dc activation energies, Ea, shown in Table 6, were determined from the slope of the linear fitting. The activation energy values of the present glasses were found to lie between 36.09 and 44.29kJ/mol. These activation energy values are smaller than the ones reported in the xNa2O–(35–x)V2O5–65TeO2 [14] and 0.5[xAg2O–(1–x)V2O5]–0.5TeO2 glassy systems [22].

Fig. 7 shows isothermal variations in conductivity as a function of the composition. For the TVK0 glass, the phonon assisted polaronic migration, between V+4 and V+5 sites, which goes through the bridging oxygen channels, is responsible for electrical conductivity [6].

The behavior of the dc conductivity (Fig. 7 and Table 6) and activation energy (Table 6) suggest that, for 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5mol%, the electrical conduction is due to both, SPH between V-ions, and K+ mobility in the glass network. Moreover, the polaronic and ionic conductivities are not separated. In this K2O content range, there is a competition between the polaronic and ionic contribution for the electrical conduction. This is associated with a superiority of the ionic conductivity which is more pronounced in x=7.5. The increased activation energy and decreased conductivity, for K2O contents above 7.5mol%, show the predominance of the polaronic contribution in conduction mechanism. Therefore, for x>7.5mol%, a switch in the predominant conduction mechanism from ionic to polaronic can be observed.

Some studies on different glass systems such as lithium vanadate tellurite [10,21] and telluro-vanadate glasses containing Ag2O [22,46], have also reported a transition in the conduction mechanism.

Furthermore, Ea depends on the mean transition metal ions spacing, namely, V-ions spacing, as reported in other telluro-vanadate glasses [6,10,21,22,46]. In order to obtain Ea-R relation, the V-ion and K-ion densities were calculated using the following equations: (6) N V − ion=2 ρ . x V 2 O 5 M V 2 O 5 . N A (7) N K − ion=2 ρ . x K 2 O M V 2 O 5 . N A where xi=V2O5, K2O is the mole fraction of V2O5 or K2O, Mi=V2O5, K2O is the molecular weight of V2O5 or K2O, ρ is density and NA is the Avogadro constant. The relationship between Ni and Ri (mean ion spacing) is generally described as following [24]: (8) R i=1 N i 1 3 i=V , K

The calculated values of Ni and Ri are summarized in Table 6. The pre-exponential term, as function of the activation energy of the glasses, is plotted in Fig. 8 . The σo values were evaluated using the experimental results, namely, the intercept of the Ln(σT) vs 1000/T curves at 1000 T=0 . The results show a linear dependence, as predicted by the Meyer–Neldel model (or compensation law) [46]: (9) ln σ 0=a . E a + b where a and b are constants to be determined. In the two zones previously defined, two different behaviors for this rule are found: in the ionic domain (Zone 1, 2.5 ≤ x ≤ 7.5), the parameter a is positive (also known as the Meyer–Neldel rule), whereas in the electronic/polaronic domain (Zone 2, x=0 and 7.5<x ≤ 15), a is negative (anti-Meyer–Neldel rule). The same behavior was observed by Montani et al. [46] in silver vanadium tellurite glasses.

In order to have a better knowledge about the electrical properties of the glasses which contain alkali oxides, one can express the conductivity's variation, as a function of the composition, using cation-polaron correlation effect [47,48].

Based on the data provided from the Raman spectrum of the TVK2.5 glass, this effect can be modeled as the following, positive specie, such as K+ ion, attract the mobile electron (or polaron formed by its capture by a V5+ ion). Such cation–polaron pairs tend to move together as neutral entities. The transfer of such pairs will not lead to any net displacement of electric charge, therefore, this process does not contribute to the electrical conductivity [49].

At the same time, when the K2O content increases, the separation between any unpaired polarons increases, and RV increases (Table 6). Thus, the initial addition of K2O would decrease the polaronic conductivity [47]. Further addition of K2O (5mol%) leads to an increase of the NBO concentration, a strong decrease of V4+ and a preferential four-fold coordination of the V5+ ion, as seen in Table 4 and Fig. 5. The Raman Spectra shows that the addition of K2O disrupts the TeOTe, TeOV and VOV bonds, which forms non bridging groups. These NBOs restrict the ease of intervalence electron transfer, and thus, reduce electron mobility [47,48]. Therefore, cationic conductivity begins to increase as the K2O content increases. Eventually, the optimum situation is achieved by the TVK7.5 glass, where sufficient numbers of trapping polarons (V+4) are present and accompanied by adequate number of K+ ions. At this point, the polaronic conductivity begins to dominate because the distance between vanadium ions diminishes, as shown in Table 6 with the conductivity increase and activation energy decrease.

Ultimately, as the K2O content raises up to 15mol%, the glass structure becomes more open and the greater formation of NBOs increases the jump distance between V hopping sites, resulting in a decrease of the conductivity [43,44]. In this region the number of V4+ is greater than the number of cations, and therefore, the polaronic conductivity increases.

It can be suggested that, the increase of the K2O content, leads to a significant formation of V4+ and spontaneous reduction of V5+, which assists the increment of the electronic conductivity. The contribution of electronic and ionic conductivity in the conduction mechanism is not only governed by alkali content. In order to obtain a high ionic conductivity, a high charge carrier is needed. However in these glasses, a superior number of V4+ instead of K+ ions, can hinder the cationic contribution and increase the influence of polaronic contribution.

The relationship between the structural properties and electrical behavior of the 50TeO2–(50–x)V2O5–xK2O glassy system, have been studied by XRD, density measuremnt, Raman spectroscopy, impedance spectroscopy, and dc electrical measurements.

The K-free sample (x=0) presents electronic conductivity resulting from electron hopping between the V4+ and V5+ sites. When increasing x in low concentration (x<7.5), the coordination of vanadium changes from four to five. Therefore, the formation of NBOs and the KV and TeK bonds promote ionic conduction.

With introduction of K2O in higher content (x>7.5), the creation of NBOs, due to gradual transformation from VO5 to VO4 structural units, leads to a bulkier network which results in an increased distance between V hopping sites. However, for these K2O contents, it is also observed a tendency to promote a network change from TeO3 to TeO4 structural units. Therefore, despite the high potassium content, the electronic contribution in the samples' conductivity increases. The observed behavior for the TVK7.5 glass, suggests that there is a change, from ions to electrons, on the dominant carrier species of the conductivity process.

This work is funded by FEDER funds through the COMPETE 2020 Programme and National Funds through FCT — Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology under the project UID/CTM/50025/2013.