Title:
The effects of dose  dose rate  and irradiation type and their equivalence on radiation-induced segregation in binary alloy systems via phase-field simulations

Abstract:
Graphical abstract

Keywords:
Radiation-induced segregation
Dose effect
Dose equivalent rate
Phase-field simulation

Acknowledgements:
R.D. is supported by the United States (U.S.) Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Basic Energy Sciences (BES), Department of Materials Science and Engineering. D.V. and C.D. are supported through the Sandia Academic Alliance (SAA) Program. The phase-field framework is supported by the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies, an Office of Science user facility operated for the U.S. Department of Energy. Sandia National Laboratories is a multi-mission laboratory managed and operated by National Technology and Engineering Solutions of Sandia, LLC., a wholly owned subsidiary of Honeywell International, Inc., for the U.S. Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration under contract DE-NA0003525. This paper describes objective technical results and analysis. Any subjective views or opinions that might be expressed in the paper do not necessarily represent the views of the U.S. Department of Energy or the United States Government.

Abbreviations:
RIS radiation-induced segregation
MEMPHIS mesoscale multiphysics phase field simulator
FP Frenkel pair
dpa displacement per atom
arc-dpa athermal-recombination-corrected dpa
rpa replacement per atom
PKA primary knock-on atom

Data Availability:
Data will be made available on request.

Introduction:
Materials exposed to a radiation environment can experience the buildup of radiation damage and local chemical redistribution of its alloying elements [1–6]. These radiation-induced segregation (RIS) phenomena are very common in alloys and have pervasive effects on the degradation of materials properties including radiation-induced hardening and embrittlement, irradiation-assisted stress corrosion, irradiation creep, or void swelling [4,5,7,8]. RIS involves multiple microstructural, chemo-physical processes taking place across a wide range of time and length scales [9,10]. At the time scale of pico- to nanoseconds and the length scale of nanometers, radiation damage events evolve through stages of ballistic collisions and thermal equilibration, ultimately resulting in the formation of defects as well as some short-range atomic shuffling. Over these short time and length scales, the local atomic mixing disrupts the distribution of elements within the alloy and causes localized regions to become solute-rich or solute-poor. Over greater time and length scales, preferential diffusion of solute atoms leads to the growth of compositionally heterogeneous regions, potentially causing phase changes and the associated emergence of stress fields created through lattice mismatch at the solute aggregate/matrix interface. This diffusive process is enhanced by the diffusion of radiation-induced defects, which have a tendency to migrate towards pre-existing defect sinks such as dislocations and grain boundaries and either accumulate or annihilate at those sinks [9,11].
The onset and development of RIS can only occur when a sufficient flux of defects is sustained and defect sinks are present [12–14]. Irradiation temperature, dose, and dose rate all directly affect defect flux and have been shown to impact RIS mechanisms [11,15,16]. Increasing the temperature increases the mobility and diffusive character of point defects and segregating elements, while increasing the dose rate results in higher point-defect concentrations. For instance, Averback et al. [17] found that increasing the irradiation temperature lead to an increase in the thickness of the precipitate layer that would form in a nickel–silicon (Ni–12.7 at. % Si) sample. They also observed a temperature threshold effect, for which above 590 ∘ C the growth rate of the precipitate region ceased to depend on dose rate, while below that threshold temperature the growth rate was dose-rate dependent. Another example is from Allen et al. [18] who examined neutron-irradiated samples of stainless steels and compared them with samples irradiated with much higher dose rate with proton irradiation. They observed that, in the case of a nickel–chromium (Ni–Cr) alloy, decreasing the dose rate leads to greater RIS where Cr was depleted, and Ni enriched. However, their measurements as well as separate measurements from Rehn et al. [15] for a Ni–Si alloy indicated the opposite trend with Si enrichment being greater at higher dose rates. Rehn and coworkers also noted that the amount of RIS observed at a given dose was usually larger for irradiation conditions by light particles (such as electron or light-ion irradiation) than by heavy particles (such as heavy-ion or neutron irradiation). Similarly, Was and Allen [19] compared several experiments performed in stainless steels irradiated by protons, neutrons, and heavy ions. They also noted that the development of RIS in terms of dose dependence and segregation profile differed depending on the type of incident particle and attributed it to the efficiency of the different particle types to produce “freely migrating” defects. Despite these experimental observations and studies, the effects of irradiation conditions in terms of dose, dose rate, and the type of radiation particles on RIS mechanisms are still poorly understood.
Part of the difficulty is rooted in our ability to capture the duplicity of processes involved and the different types of radiation conditions. While atomistic simulation techniques such as molecular dynamics or kinetic Monte Carlo [20–23] provide insight into the unit atomistic mechanisms related to the formation of defects and the local atomic mixing and precipitation that occur as a consequence of isolated radiation events, these atomic models are limited in their ability to predict the evolution of these processes over mesoscopic length scales or for high radiation doses or low dose rates. As an alternative, rate theory [24–27], cluster dynamics [28–32], and phase field [9,10,33–36] are mean-field approaches that describe the spatio-temporal evolution of defect and solute concentrations over a representative volume element. Of particular interest to the present study, several phase-field models have been developed and employed to study RIS mechanisms as summarized in Table 1 . For instance, the model presented by Dubey and El-Azab [33,34] examined the radiation-induced segregation behavior of a binary alloy with a free surface as a sink. This model includes a unique consideration of interstitial dumbbells, where different field variables are used to represent different dumbbell configurations; however, this model does not include the formation and growth of defect clusters and it does not include any additional sinks beyond the free surface. The model presented by Badillo et al. [9] includes the presence of vacancy and interstitial clusters but does not allow for the presence of any additional defect sinks, such as free surfaces or dislocations. The model presented by Piochaud et al. [10] includes a calculation of diffusion parameters from accelerated kinetic Monte Carlo simulations and utilizes a variable time-step approach to accelerate the simulation. However, this model does not include the formation of defect clusters and does not include additional discrete defect sinks, such as dislocations, grain boundaries, or free surfaces. The underlying commonality between these models is that the evolution over time of the elemental species, point defect species, and any other species considered by the model are each represented by coupled partial differential equations, where interactions between the different species are described via rate terms. However, these models do not offer the ability to distinguish between different sources of irradiation (light vs. heavy ions) nor did they investigate the effect of dose rate.
The intent of this study is to fill this gap by providing a method that can be used to examine the effects of dose rate and irradiation type on radiation-induced segregation behavior in binary alloy systems. We start with a complete description of our radiation-induced segregation phase-field model in Section 2. Our model includes the formation and evolution of point defects as well as defect clusters, the presence of additional defect sinks in the form of dislocations (which also interact with the chemical potentials of the point defect species through an applied stress field), and two different methods of radiation-damage insertion, which are intended to simulate either light-ion/electron irradiation in the form of Frenkel pair insertion or heavy-ion irradiation in the form of cascade-like insertion. In Section 3, we employ this model to study the effects of dose, dose rate, particle type, and the presence of dislocations on RIS in a model binary alloy. In Section 4 we discuss how the methodology presented in this work allows for a first-order prediction of the dose rate for proxy irradiation experiments could be performed to approximate similar radiation-induced segregation seen in a targeted irradiation environment.

Phase-field Formulation For Radiation-induced Segregation In Binary Alloys:
2.1 Kinetics of defect and alloying species Our model considers a binary alloy with vacancies and self-interstitials of both alloy species as well as clusters of each point defect species. We model the evolution of the atomic, point-defect, and defect-cluster concentrations through time and space using Cahn-Hilliard-like equations. These equations have been modified to include defect/defect and defect/defect-cluster interactions. Each node within the simulation volume is assumed to represent a volume of materials of dimension L unit cells across. Therefore, each node would contain L 2 or L 3 unit cells, depending on whether the simulation is two or three dimensional, respectively. The concentration of a given atomic species within each node is thereby determined as the volume average per unit cell L of atoms or point defects within the node. In total, we use eight microstructural fields representing: two alloy species ( X A , X B ), three point-defect species ( X V , X i A , X i B ), and three defect-cluster species ( X V C , X iC A , and X iC B ), where A and B denote alloy component A and B respectively, subscripts i and V denote interstitial and vacancy species, and subscript C denotes clusters of these species. For instance, “ X iC B ” denotes the concentration of B interstitial clusters. The diffusive evolution of alloy species (described in the equations as α and β , each representing species A or B respectively) and point-defect concentrations (described in the equations as d , representing either vacancies or the two self-interstitial atom concentrations) are described by the overall fluxes of atoms mediated by point defects [10]: (1) d X α dt=∇ · [ ∑ d ∑ β ℓ α β d X d k B T ( ∇ μ β + sign ( d ) ∇ μ d ) ] + R Vi , α + R VC , i α + R VC , i β , (2) d X d d t=∇ · [ ∑ α ∑ β ℓ α β d X d k B T ( sign ( d ) ∇ μ β + ∇ μ d ) ] − R recomb − R d , sink . In these equations, sign ( d ) has a value of − 1 for vacancies and a value of 1 for the two interstitial species, μ β is the chemical potential of the alloy species β , μ d is the chemical potential of a point-defect species d , T is the temperature of the system in Kelvin, and k B is the Boltzmann constant. The terms R recomb , for recombination, and R d , sink , for sinks, depend on the type of point defect d and the type of microstructural sinks present in the simulation. In this model, the only defect sinks that are handled through the rate term R d , sink are defect clusters. The term ℓ α β d represents a normalized Onsager coefficient for cross-effects and is defined as (3) ℓ α β d=V at k B T X d L α β d , where V at is the atomic volume. In the simulations performed for this work, all length scales required in the computation of ℓ were normalized by the dimensions of the simulation nodes, so the V at was approximated as V at=1 / ( L d n cell ) , where n cell is number of atoms per unit cell of the material (4 for FCC materials, 2 for BCC). The expressions for L α β d can be found in the previous work by Tucker et al. [37], with parameters used in the present work listed in Appendix A. The value of ℓ used for interstitial defects is assumed to be the same between the two-point interstitial species. For some of the equations used in this model, adjusted concentrations are used to account for the presence of defect clusters within specific nodes, which reduces the number of available sites within a given unit cell. Based on the original formulation proposed by Badillo et al. [9], the adjusted concentrations are: (4) X ˜ γ=X γ 1 − X V C − X i C A − X i C B ; for γ=A , B , V , (5) X ˜ i α=X i α 1 − X V C − X i C A − X i C B ; for α=A , B , with modifications made to allow for the rates of point defect loss at clusters of the opposite type to depend on the size of those clusters (e.g., vacancies interacting with interstitial clusters or interstitial interacting with vacancy clusters). Recombination of the point-defect species is handled via [9]: (6) ( d X ˜ i A dt ) recomb=R ˜ V , i A=− 4 π r c X ˜ V X ˜ i A [ Γ ¯ V + ν c i A exp ( − β E i A m ) ] , (7) ( d X ˜ i B dt ) recomb=R ˜ V , i B=− 4 π r c X ˜ V X ˜ i B [ Γ ¯ V + ν c i B exp ( − β E i B m ) ] , (8) ( d X ˜ V dt ) recomb=( d X ˜ i A dt ) recomb + ( d X ˜ i B dt ) recomb . Due to the modifications made to the formulation of the adjusted species concentrations in Eqs. (4) and (5), point-defect recombination can be preserved when defect clusters are present since the normalization factor is the same between vacancies and interstitials. In the above equations, the term Γ ¯ V represents the average vacancy jump frequency for a local composition and is defined by Badillo et al. [9]: (9) Γ ¯ V=ν c X ˜ A exp ( − β E V A m ) + ν c X ˜ B exp ( − β E V B m ) . In Eqs. (6) and (7), r c refers to the recombination radius for interstitials and vacancies normalized by the length-scale of the node. The expression 4 π r c in Eqs. (6) and (7) is for three-dimensional simulations, and is replaced by the expression 2 π / [ r c 2 / 2 − ln ( r c ) − 1 / 2 ] for two-dimensional simulations. The term ν c refers to the jump attempt frequency of isolated vacancies divided by L 2 (i.e., ν L 2 ). A discussion on why the vibration frequency ν must be normalized by the dimension of the nodes can be found in Badillo et al. [9]. The terms E V A m and E V B m are the vacancy migration barriers in pure species A or B, and E i A m and E i B m are the migration barriers for interstitials of type A and type B atoms, respectively. The evolution of the concentrations of defect clusters is described by (10) d X VC dt=R V , VC − ∑ α R i α , VC , (11) d X iC α dt=( R i α , iC A + R i α , iC B ) − R V , iC α . For all cluster types, growth of the cluster occurs via interactions with defects of the same type (i.e., vacancy absorption at a vacancy cluster) and shrinkage of the cluster occurs via absorption of the opposite defect type (i.e., vacancy absorption at an interstitial cluster). Vacancy-vacancy cluster interactions are given by, (12) R ˜ VC , V=ν c ( X ˜ A exp ( − β E V A m ) + X ˜ B exp ( − β E VB m ) ) × { X ˜ V − exp ( − β E N − 1 → N b ) 1 − X VC } . In the above equation, E N − 1 → N b is the binding energy of a single vacancy to a vacancy cluster of size N , which can be approximated by: (13) E N − 1 → N b=E V f + E 2 V b − E V f 2 σ − 1 [ N σ − ( N − 1 ) σ ] , where E V f is the vacancy formation energy, E 2 V b is the divacancy binding energy, and σ is related to the spatial dimension via the expression σ=( d − 1 ) / d where d is the dimensionality of the simulation. Eq. (12) includes both vacancy capture at vacancy clusters (represented by the first term in the curly brackets) as well as thermal emission of vacancies from vacancy clusters (represented by the second term in the curly brackets). As it is shown, Eq. (12) is in terms of the adjusted concentration of vacancies, and would need to be multiplied by 1 − X V C prior to being used in Eqs. (1), (2), and (10). Vacancy loss at interstitial clusters is defined as: (14) R ˜ V , iC α=ν c ( X ˜ A exp ( β E V A m ) + X ˜ B exp ( β E V B m ) ) X ˜ V , while interstitial loss at vacancy clusters and interstitial clusters are described by: (15) R ˜ i α , iC α=ν c i α X ˜ i α ( 1 − X ˜ i A − X ˜ i B ) exp ( − β E i α m ) . We applied a constraint to the simulation such that vacancy clusters and interstitial clusters could not be in the same node at the same time, such that each point defect species would only have one sink loss term active at a time. Equations (14) and (15) are in terms of their adjusted point defect concentrations and would need to be multiplied by the appropriate adjustment term from Eq. (5) to be used to adjust the original concentrations.
2.2 Chemical potentials The diffusion behaviors of the different mobile species are described by the first term on the right-hand side of Eqs. (1) and (2). The chemical potentials μ α and μ d are functions of the chemical energy of the system, which can be partitioned into a homogeneous and heterogeneous part [10]: (16) F chem ( X d , X α )=F hom chem ( X d , X α ) + F het chem ( X α ) , The expressions for F chem can be found in Eqs. (9) and (10) of Piochaud et al. [10]. The chemical potentials of the alloy and defect mixture μ can be derived from the expressions of the chemical energy (17) μ α=V at δ F chem δ X α , (18) μ d 0=V at δ F chem δ X d . The chemical potentials defined in Eqs. (17) and (18), as well as the Onsager coefficients in Eq. (3) tend towards infinity when the species concentration approaches zero. Due to this mathematical artifact, the defect species concentrations were not allowed to fall below their thermal equilibrium concentration defined as exp ( − E d f / k b T ) , and the concentrations of the A and B species were not allowed to fall below 0.001 within any single node. Once these limits were reached, diffusion out of the node for that particular species was prevented, and rate terms that would adjust the concentration of that species were only allowed to increase the concentration. The chemical potentials for vacancies and interstitials are modified through a coupling with the stress field in the system due to solute segregates which are considered as non-overlapping spherical misfitting inclusions with purely positive dilatational eigenstrain [27]. The expressions for the total chemical potentials of vacancies and interstitials are below: (19) μ V=μ V 0 − V m η V σ k k , (20) μ i α=μ i α 0 − V m η i α σ k k . In Eqs. (19) and (20), V m is the molar volume of the pure solid, η V and η i α are the coefficients of compositional expansion for vacancies and interstitial respectively, and σ k k is the trace of the stress tensor calculated for each node of the simulation volume.
2.3 Stress field due to the presence of intrinsic and extrinsic microstructural defects The presence and growth of defects and atomic clusters as well as microstructural defects (i.e., dislocations or grain boundaries) induce a residual stress field by ways of an eigenstrain [27]. Here, we consider the two-way coupling between the stress and compositional fields. The total stress field within the simulated volume can be considered as the sum of an intrinsic stress and a stress associated with the elastic response and compositional eigenstrain, (21) σ i j=σ i j ( i n ) + σ ^ i j . The second term in Eq. (21) represents the strain due to the elastic response and the compositional eigenstrain, respectively, (22) σ ^ i j=C i j k l ( ε k l ( e l ) + ε k l ( c ) ) , where C i j k l is the elastic stiffness tensor. The elastic stiffness tensor for the alloy is taken to be a combination of the elasticity tensors for phases A and B [38,39], i.e., C ijkl=h ( c ) C ijkl A + [ 1 − h ( c ) ] C ijkl B , where h ( c ) is a smooth interpolation function between the two phases and is defined to be h ( c )=c 3 ( 6 c 2 − 15 c + 10 ) and c is the species fraction of A, with c=X A / ( X A + X B ) . Note that h ′=0 for c=0 or c=1 . The compositional strain tensor is defined via Vegard’s law, (23) ɛ ( c )=( η i X i + η v X v + η X B ) [ 1 1 0 ] I , where η i , η v , and η are the coefficients of compositional expansion for interstitials, vacancies, and B species atoms, respectively, and I is the identity second-order tensor. In Eq. (23), X i represents the sum of the concentrations of both point defect species as well as their respective clusters, while X v represents the sum of the point vacancy and vacancy cluster concentrations. The strains ε ^ i j are calculated using the nodal displacements u ^ i using the compatibility equation, (24) ε ^ i j=1 2 ( u ^ i , j + u ^ j , i ) . The elastic strain can then be calculated using the following expression, (25) ε ( e l )=ε ^ − ε ( c ) . Using Eqs. (22), (23), (24), and (25), the σ ^ i j term in (21) can be determined. For a system which does not contain any intrinsic, pre-existing microstructural defects such as dislocations, the intrinsic stress term σ i j ( i n ) is taken as zero, and the total stress can be determined using Eq. (22). Our implementation of this phase-field model also allows for the presence of an edge dislocation as a defect sink, alongside its intrinsic stress field. The stress field for an edge dislocation centered at (0,0) [40] is classically defined as: (26) σ 11 ⊥=− D 0 b y ( 3 x 2 + y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (27) σ 22 ⊥=D 0 b y ( x 2 + − y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (28) σ 12 ⊥=D 0 b y ( x 2 − y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (29) D 0=μ 2 π ( 1 − ν ) , where μ is the shear modulus of the material, ν is the Poisson’s ratio, and b is the Burgers vector of the dislocation. Finally, the out-of-plane stress is calculated as: (30) σ 33=ν ( σ 11 + σ 22 ) . The total stress (with or without dislocations) contributes to the overall chemical potentials of the point defect species defined in Eqs. (19) and (20). For all simulations involving an edge dislocation, a value of 0.24855 nm was used for the Burgers vector, b . The elastic constants used in all of the simulations performed for this work were computed from the Young’s moduli and Poisson’s ratios provided in Table 2 using Hooke’s law for isotropic materials.
2.4 Algorithmic considerations 2.4.1 Defect cluster migration Migration of defect clusters is algorithmically managed through a random shuffling step. Vacancy clusters containing more than the equivalent concentration of five vacancies are considered immobile [44]. Interstitial clusters that are smaller than half the node size are allowed to migrate, as well as vacancy clusters smaller than five vacancies. For every mobile defect cluster, a random number is generated during each simulated time step and that number is compared to a threshold value that determined the migration frequency. For the simulations performed in this work, this threshold was chosen such that on average each cluster would migrate once every 100 timesteps. Mobile defect clusters are allowed to migrate to any adjacent node, as long as that motion would not lead to the concentration of that defect species to exceed one. When considering the migration of vacancy clusters, a proportionate amount of A and B species would be placed in the node originally containing the vacancy cluster, based on the original concentrations of A and B species in the target node. Defect clusters trapped at dislocations are not allowed to be displaced. If through a migration step defect clusters of opposite types ended up in the same node, the clusters are set to annihilate with each other, leaving behind the excess of the larger cluster. 2.4.2 Excess defect cluster growth If an interstitial defect cluster grows to a sufficient cluster size such that it fills an entire node (i.e., the sum of the interstitial cluster concentrations within any given node equaled or exceeded the sum of the A and B species concentrations), the excess cluster concentration is shuffled to adjacent nodes, based on the ratio of interstitial atoms of species A and B.
2.5 Dislocations as defect sinks All defect species that are formed in or diffused to a node containing a dislocation can recombine with their opposite defect type (i.e., the total concentration of vacancy-type defects would be recombined with the total concentration of interstitial type defects). As mentioned previously in Section 2.2, point defect concentrations of zero would cause numerical instabilities due to the method of calculating the chemical potential. Therefore, the concentrations of the point-defect species at the dislocation are not allowed to fall below the previously defined thermal equilibrium concentration. This method preserves the number of lattice positions in the simulation volume, as well as the total amount of the A and B species. 2.5.1 Simulation setup For the simulations performed for this work, we chose material parameters for our model, binary alloy that are representative of a Ni–Cr alloy system [37]. All simulations were performed with a temperature of 673.15 K, chosen to represent an operating, intermediate temperature between 0.3 and 0.5 of the melting temperature of our model binary alloy. We used a 32 × 32 × 1 simulation grid with L equal to 14, a simulated time-step of one second, and an alloy concentration of 80 % species A and 20 % species B with a 5 % amplitude noise applied to the B field concentration, unless other parameters are noted separately. We performed a sensitivity study of the behavior of the model on the value of L , and observed a dependence on the value of L depending on the simulation conditions (see Appendix B). For simulations where defect clusters were unstable at all defect concentrations or simulations where the number of defect clusters did not increase during the irradiation process, no dependence on the value of L was observed. This observation is consistent with a similar analysis performed by Badillo et al. [9]. However, when new defect clusters were allowed to form during defect insertion and those defect clusters grew and were stable, a dependence on the value of L was observed. This is to be expected, as the model only considers the case where one defect cluster can exist in a node, and as the size of the node changes so does the number of defect sinks per unit volume. This dependence on the value of L is also anticipated to exist for simulations where dislocations are present, as changing the size of the simulation node would also directly change the dislocation density within the node. Plots of the evolution of the fraction of segregated solute and the sink concentration for simulations performed with cascade insertion, no dislocations, a maximum event energy T ^ of 10 keV, and a defect insertion rate of 1 dpa/month with varying L are provided in Appendix B. All other simulations parameters for these simulations match those described above. We note that the maximum size of defect clusters that can grow at a given node is also bounded by the value of L , such that depending on the parameters chosen for the simulation the sink concentration can be artificially restricted. We have chosen a value of L for our simulations where the assumption of only a single defect cluster per node is reasonable while also having large enough nodes to not impede defect cluster growth. We solved the governing equations for this model using an explicit Euler finite difference scheme. The model is implemented in Sandia’s in-house mesoscale multiphysics phase-field simulator MEMPHIS [38,45]. All simulations discussed in this work were performed with zero-flux boundary conditions applied to the edges of the simulated volume. A complete list of all the general simulation parameters is provided below in Table 3 . For the calculation of the chemical potentials of the two elemental species as described in Eq. (17), activity coefficients were interpolated based on the local alloy concentration from the data provided in [46].
2.6 Radiation damage insertion methods: Frenkel pairs versus cascade-like We consider two different methods of inserting radiation damage. The first and simplest of these methods is a Frenkel pair (FP) insertion, which is meant to emulate electron and light-ion irradiation conditions [10]. In this method, the vacancy-field variable within a target node is increased by the equivalent value of a single vacancy, as determined by the dimensionality of the simulation and the previously defined term L , which defines the size of each node in unit cells. Based on the local atomic composition, an interstitial atom of either type A or type B is created in either the same node as the vacancy or one of the immediately adjacent nodes. These FP insertion events occur at a frequency determined by a target dose rate (in dpa/s). Since the simulation size, and thereby the total number of atoms within the simulation, is defined at the beginning of the simulation, the target dose rate can be achieved utilizing the following equation, (31) R FP=R target × t s × N at , where R FP is the number of FP insertion events to perform per timestep, R target is the target dose rate, t s is the duration of each timestep, and N at is the total number of atoms within the simulation volume. The second method of radiation-damage insertion can be considered as a cascade-like insertion method, which is meant to resemble heavy-ion irradiation conditions [22,34]. This methodology uses the athermal-recombination-corrected displacement per atom (arc-dpa) and replacement per atom (rpa) standards of determining the number of defects and the size of the mixing region that forms as the result of a damage cascade being initiated by a particle with energy T [47]. This method approximates a radiation-damage cascade as a core-shell structure which is described by two different damage estimators. The first estimator is the number of displaced atoms (arc-dpa) that occurs in the shell of the approximated cascade, which is meant to capture the formation of long-range ballistic damage near the periphery of the thermal spike. The second estimator is a short-range thermal spike mixing damage (rpa) that occurs within the hot cascade core. The number of atoms involved in either the core or the shell of the approximated damage cascade initiated by a primary knock-on atom (PKA) with energy T are determined using the following equations, (32) N dpa / rpa={ 0 for T < E d 1 for E d < T < 2 E d 0.8 0.8 T 2 E d ξ dpa / rpa for 2 E d 0.8 < T < inf and, (33) ξ dpa ( T )=1 − c dpa ( 2 E d / 0.8 ) b dpa T b dpa + c dpa , (34) ξ rpa ( T )=[ b rpa c rpa ( 2 E d / 0.8 ) c rpa + 1 ] T c rpa b rpa c rpa + T c rpa , where E d is the threshold displacement energy, and b dpa , c dpa , b rpa , and c rpa are material specific constants determined from explicit PKA simulations or from experiments. Values for these constants used in simulations involving cascade-like damage insertion are provided in Table 4 [47]. In our model, N dpa vacancies are created within a randomly selected node, and N dpa interstitials are created either in the same node or any adjacent nodes. The fraction of interstitials that are of species A or B are sampled from the selected node’s concentrations of species A or B. To account for the recombination of pre-existing defects that can occur within the thermal spike of a damage cascade, the fraction of the node that is participating in the cascade is determined by dividing N rpa by the number of lattice positions per node. Then, the minimum defect fraction is determined by comparing the total vacancy concentration (i.e., the sum of the isolated vacancy concentration and the vacancy cluster concentration) in the event node to the total interstitial concentration. A random number between 0 and 1 is multiplied by the product of the minimum defect concentration and the fraction of the node that is participating in the cascade. This fraction of the minimum defect concentration is recombined with the other defect species according to the local distribution of point defects to defect clusters. A maximum recoil energy is provided as an input into the model, and an event energy is sampled based on that maximum energy using the primary recoil spectrum calculated using the below equations [48]. (35) P ( E , T )=∫ E d T σ ( E , T ′ ) d T ′ ∫ E d T ^ σ ( E , T ′ ) d T ′ . Eq. (35) represents the fractional number of recoils between the minimum displacement energy E d and energy T , where T ^ is the maximum possible recoil energy, E is the incident ion energy, and σ ( E , T ) is the scattering cross section for heavy, slow ions with incident energy E and PKA energy T . The scattering cross-section can be approximated using the following equation, (36) σ ( E , T )=π 2 a 2 E a γ 1 / 2 8 E 1 / 2 T 3 / 2 , where a=0.8853 a 0 ( Z 1 Z 2 ) 1 / 6 ( Z 1 and Z 2 are the atomic numbers of the interacting atoms and a 0 is the Bohr radius), γ=4 M 1 M 2 ( M 1 + M 2 ) 2 ( M 1 and M 2 are the masses of the interacting atoms), and E a=13.6 ( Z 1 Z 2 ) 7 / 6 ( M 1 + M 2 ) ( M 2 ϵ ) ( ϵ is the unit charge). Eq. (36) enables us to determined the maximum energy being sampled during cascade insertion. Determining the event rate for the cascade-like damage insertion method is slightly more complicated than determining the event rate for the FP insertion method, since the number of atoms displaced per event is not constant. For the simulations performed for this work, the event rate for cascade-like damage insertion was determined by sampling the primary recoil spectrum 100,000 times and calculating the N dpa from these sampled recoil energies. These N dpa values were averaged to determine an average number of displacements per event, which was then used to determine an event rate according to the equation, (37) R C=R target × t s × N at N dpa avg , where R C is the number of cascade-like damage insertions per timestep and N dpa avg is the average number of displacements per cascade-like damage insertion event. Defect clusters are introduced into the simulation by replacing a damage insertion event with a cluster insertion event. For both FP insertion and cascade insertion, a cluster insertion event occurs after the equivalent concentration of 4000 vacancies and interstitials have been inserted [9]. For the case of FP insertion, the cluster insertion event involved the formation of a vacancy cluster of size 4 forming in the event node, and two interstitial clusters of size 2 being formed in the nodes surrounding the event node. With cascade insertion, a vacancy cluster of size N dpa was formed in the event node and N dpa interstitials were randomly distributed to form interstitial clusters in the nodes adjacent to the event node. Both FP and cascade-like approaches rely on the ability to adjust the defect and species concentrations in increments equivalent to one atom or defect within each node. As such, these methods cannot be used when the number of lattice positions within each node is small, as the probability that a node’s concentration for any of the elemental species or defect species falls to zero or below increases as the physical size represented by the node decreases. Given the size of our computational grid chosen for this study, we are limited in the spatial resolution that can be achieved for the stress fields induced by the presence of dislocation or grain boundaries, such as those performed in Zarnas et al. [27,49] and Moldaje et al. [36]. Indeed, the length-scale associated with the detailed stress fields is on the order of several lattice constants, below the dimension of the nodes used in the simulations for this work. Here, the stress field for pre-existing dislocations is therefore averaged over a given unit cell.

Kinetics Of Defect And Alloying Species:
Our model considers a binary alloy with vacancies and self-interstitials of both alloy species as well as clusters of each point defect species. We model the evolution of the atomic, point-defect, and defect-cluster concentrations through time and space using Cahn-Hilliard-like equations. These equations have been modified to include defect/defect and defect/defect-cluster interactions. Each node within the simulation volume is assumed to represent a volume of materials of dimension L unit cells across. Therefore, each node would contain L 2 or L 3 unit cells, depending on whether the simulation is two or three dimensional, respectively. The concentration of a given atomic species within each node is thereby determined as the volume average per unit cell L of atoms or point defects within the node.
In total, we use eight microstructural fields representing: two alloy species ( X A , X B ), three point-defect species ( X V , X i A , X i B ), and three defect-cluster species ( X V C , X iC A , and X iC B ), where A and B denote alloy component A and B respectively, subscripts i and V denote interstitial and vacancy species, and subscript C denotes clusters of these species. For instance, “ X iC B ” denotes the concentration of B interstitial clusters.
The diffusive evolution of alloy species (described in the equations as α and β , each representing species A or B respectively) and point-defect concentrations (described in the equations as d , representing either vacancies or the two self-interstitial atom concentrations) are described by the overall fluxes of atoms mediated by point defects [10]: (1) d X α dt=∇ · [ ∑ d ∑ β ℓ α β d X d k B T ( ∇ μ β + sign ( d ) ∇ μ d ) ] + R Vi , α + R VC , i α + R VC , i β , (2) d X d d t=∇ · [ ∑ α ∑ β ℓ α β d X d k B T ( sign ( d ) ∇ μ β + ∇ μ d ) ] − R recomb − R d , sink . In these equations, sign ( d ) has a value of − 1 for vacancies and a value of 1 for the two interstitial species, μ β is the chemical potential of the alloy species β , μ d is the chemical potential of a point-defect species d , T is the temperature of the system in Kelvin, and k B is the Boltzmann constant. The terms R recomb , for recombination, and R d , sink , for sinks, depend on the type of point defect d and the type of microstructural sinks present in the simulation. In this model, the only defect sinks that are handled through the rate term R d , sink are defect clusters. The term ℓ α β d represents a normalized Onsager coefficient for cross-effects and is defined as (3) ℓ α β d=V at k B T X d L α β d , where V at is the atomic volume. In the simulations performed for this work, all length scales required in the computation of ℓ were normalized by the dimensions of the simulation nodes, so the V at was approximated as V at=1 / ( L d n cell ) , where n cell is number of atoms per unit cell of the material (4 for FCC materials, 2 for BCC). The expressions for L α β d can be found in the previous work by Tucker et al. [37], with parameters used in the present work listed in Appendix A. The value of ℓ used for interstitial defects is assumed to be the same between the two-point interstitial species.
For some of the equations used in this model, adjusted concentrations are used to account for the presence of defect clusters within specific nodes, which reduces the number of available sites within a given unit cell. Based on the original formulation proposed by Badillo et al. [9], the adjusted concentrations are: (4) X ˜ γ=X γ 1 − X V C − X i C A − X i C B ; for γ=A , B , V , (5) X ˜ i α=X i α 1 − X V C − X i C A − X i C B ; for α=A , B , with modifications made to allow for the rates of point defect loss at clusters of the opposite type to depend on the size of those clusters (e.g., vacancies interacting with interstitial clusters or interstitial interacting with vacancy clusters). Recombination of the point-defect species is handled via [9]: (6) ( d X ˜ i A dt ) recomb=R ˜ V , i A=− 4 π r c X ˜ V X ˜ i A [ Γ ¯ V + ν c i A exp ( − β E i A m ) ] , (7) ( d X ˜ i B dt ) recomb=R ˜ V , i B=− 4 π r c X ˜ V X ˜ i B [ Γ ¯ V + ν c i B exp ( − β E i B m ) ] , (8) ( d X ˜ V dt ) recomb=( d X ˜ i A dt ) recomb + ( d X ˜ i B dt ) recomb . Due to the modifications made to the formulation of the adjusted species concentrations in Eqs. (4) and (5), point-defect recombination can be preserved when defect clusters are present since the normalization factor is the same between vacancies and interstitials.
In the above equations, the term Γ ¯ V represents the average vacancy jump frequency for a local composition and is defined by Badillo et al. [9]: (9) Γ ¯ V=ν c X ˜ A exp ( − β E V A m ) + ν c X ˜ B exp ( − β E V B m ) . In Eqs. (6) and (7), r c refers to the recombination radius for interstitials and vacancies normalized by the length-scale of the node. The expression 4 π r c in Eqs. (6) and (7) is for three-dimensional simulations, and is replaced by the expression 2 π / [ r c 2 / 2 − ln ( r c ) − 1 / 2 ] for two-dimensional simulations. The term ν c refers to the jump attempt frequency of isolated vacancies divided by L 2 (i.e., ν L 2 ). A discussion on why the vibration frequency ν must be normalized by the dimension of the nodes can be found in Badillo et al. [9]. The terms E V A m and E V B m are the vacancy migration barriers in pure species A or B, and E i A m and E i B m are the migration barriers for interstitials of type A and type B atoms, respectively.
The evolution of the concentrations of defect clusters is described by (10) d X VC dt=R V , VC − ∑ α R i α , VC , (11) d X iC α dt=( R i α , iC A + R i α , iC B ) − R V , iC α . For all cluster types, growth of the cluster occurs via interactions with defects of the same type (i.e., vacancy absorption at a vacancy cluster) and shrinkage of the cluster occurs via absorption of the opposite defect type (i.e., vacancy absorption at an interstitial cluster). Vacancy-vacancy cluster interactions are given by, (12) R ˜ VC , V=ν c ( X ˜ A exp ( − β E V A m ) + X ˜ B exp ( − β E VB m ) ) × { X ˜ V − exp ( − β E N − 1 → N b ) 1 − X VC } . In the above equation, E N − 1 → N b is the binding energy of a single vacancy to a vacancy cluster of size N , which can be approximated by: (13) E N − 1 → N b=E V f + E 2 V b − E V f 2 σ − 1 [ N σ − ( N − 1 ) σ ] , where E V f is the vacancy formation energy, E 2 V b is the divacancy binding energy, and σ is related to the spatial dimension via the expression σ=( d − 1 ) / d where d is the dimensionality of the simulation. Eq. (12) includes both vacancy capture at vacancy clusters (represented by the first term in the curly brackets) as well as thermal emission of vacancies from vacancy clusters (represented by the second term in the curly brackets). As it is shown, Eq. (12) is in terms of the adjusted concentration of vacancies, and would need to be multiplied by 1 − X V C prior to being used in Eqs. (1), (2), and (10).
Vacancy loss at interstitial clusters is defined as: (14) R ˜ V , iC α=ν c ( X ˜ A exp ( β E V A m ) + X ˜ B exp ( β E V B m ) ) X ˜ V , while interstitial loss at vacancy clusters and interstitial clusters are described by: (15) R ˜ i α , iC α=ν c i α X ˜ i α ( 1 − X ˜ i A − X ˜ i B ) exp ( − β E i α m ) . We applied a constraint to the simulation such that vacancy clusters and interstitial clusters could not be in the same node at the same time, such that each point defect species would only have one sink loss term active at a time. Equations (14) and (15) are in terms of their adjusted point defect concentrations and would need to be multiplied by the appropriate adjustment term from Eq. (5) to be used to adjust the original concentrations.

Chemical Potentials:
The diffusion behaviors of the different mobile species are described by the first term on the right-hand side of Eqs. (1) and (2). The chemical potentials μ α and μ d are functions of the chemical energy of the system, which can be partitioned into a homogeneous and heterogeneous part [10]: (16) F chem ( X d , X α )=F hom chem ( X d , X α ) + F het chem ( X α ) , The expressions for F chem can be found in Eqs. (9) and (10) of Piochaud et al. [10]. The chemical potentials of the alloy and defect mixture μ can be derived from the expressions of the chemical energy (17) μ α=V at δ F chem δ X α , (18) μ d 0=V at δ F chem δ X d .
The chemical potentials defined in Eqs. (17) and (18), as well as the Onsager coefficients in Eq. (3) tend towards infinity when the species concentration approaches zero. Due to this mathematical artifact, the defect species concentrations were not allowed to fall below their thermal equilibrium concentration defined as exp ( − E d f / k b T ) , and the concentrations of the A and B species were not allowed to fall below 0.001 within any single node. Once these limits were reached, diffusion out of the node for that particular species was prevented, and rate terms that would adjust the concentration of that species were only allowed to increase the concentration.
The chemical potentials for vacancies and interstitials are modified through a coupling with the stress field in the system due to solute segregates which are considered as non-overlapping spherical misfitting inclusions with purely positive dilatational eigenstrain [27]. The expressions for the total chemical potentials of vacancies and interstitials are below: (19) μ V=μ V 0 − V m η V σ k k , (20) μ i α=μ i α 0 − V m η i α σ k k . In Eqs. (19) and (20), V m is the molar volume of the pure solid, η V and η i α are the coefficients of compositional expansion for vacancies and interstitial respectively, and σ k k is the trace of the stress tensor calculated for each node of the simulation volume.

Stress Field Due To The Presence Of Intrinsic And Extrinsic Microstructural Defects:
The presence and growth of defects and atomic clusters as well as microstructural defects (i.e., dislocations or grain boundaries) induce a residual stress field by ways of an eigenstrain [27]. Here, we consider the two-way coupling between the stress and compositional fields. The total stress field within the simulated volume can be considered as the sum of an intrinsic stress and a stress associated with the elastic response and compositional eigenstrain, (21) σ i j=σ i j ( i n ) + σ ^ i j .
The second term in Eq. (21) represents the strain due to the elastic response and the compositional eigenstrain, respectively, (22) σ ^ i j=C i j k l ( ε k l ( e l ) + ε k l ( c ) ) , where C i j k l is the elastic stiffness tensor. The elastic stiffness tensor for the alloy is taken to be a combination of the elasticity tensors for phases A and B [38,39], i.e., C ijkl=h ( c ) C ijkl A + [ 1 − h ( c ) ] C ijkl B , where h ( c ) is a smooth interpolation function between the two phases and is defined to be h ( c )=c 3 ( 6 c 2 − 15 c + 10 ) and c is the species fraction of A, with c=X A / ( X A + X B ) . Note that h ′=0 for c=0 or c=1 . The compositional strain tensor is defined via Vegard’s law, (23) ɛ ( c )=( η i X i + η v X v + η X B ) [ 1 1 0 ] I , where η i , η v , and η are the coefficients of compositional expansion for interstitials, vacancies, and B species atoms, respectively, and I is the identity second-order tensor. In Eq. (23), X i represents the sum of the concentrations of both point defect species as well as their respective clusters, while X v represents the sum of the point vacancy and vacancy cluster concentrations.
The strains ε ^ i j are calculated using the nodal displacements u ^ i using the compatibility equation, (24) ε ^ i j=1 2 ( u ^ i , j + u ^ j , i ) . The elastic strain can then be calculated using the following expression, (25) ε ( e l )=ε ^ − ε ( c ) . Using Eqs. (22), (23), (24), and (25), the σ ^ i j term in (21) can be determined.
For a system which does not contain any intrinsic, pre-existing microstructural defects such as dislocations, the intrinsic stress term σ i j ( i n ) is taken as zero, and the total stress can be determined using Eq. (22). Our implementation of this phase-field model also allows for the presence of an edge dislocation as a defect sink, alongside its intrinsic stress field. The stress field for an edge dislocation centered at (0,0) [40] is classically defined as: (26) σ 11 ⊥=− D 0 b y ( 3 x 2 + y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (27) σ 22 ⊥=D 0 b y ( x 2 + − y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (28) σ 12 ⊥=D 0 b y ( x 2 − y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (29) D 0=μ 2 π ( 1 − ν ) , where μ is the shear modulus of the material, ν is the Poisson’s ratio, and b is the Burgers vector of the dislocation. Finally, the out-of-plane stress is calculated as: (30) σ 33=ν ( σ 11 + σ 22 ) . The total stress (with or without dislocations) contributes to the overall chemical potentials of the point defect species defined in Eqs. (19) and (20). For all simulations involving an edge dislocation, a value of 0.24855 nm was used for the Burgers vector, b . The elastic constants used in all of the simulations performed for this work were computed from the Young’s moduli and Poisson’s ratios provided in Table 2 using Hooke’s law for isotropic materials.

Algorithmic Considerations:
2.4.1 Defect cluster migration Migration of defect clusters is algorithmically managed through a random shuffling step. Vacancy clusters containing more than the equivalent concentration of five vacancies are considered immobile [44]. Interstitial clusters that are smaller than half the node size are allowed to migrate, as well as vacancy clusters smaller than five vacancies. For every mobile defect cluster, a random number is generated during each simulated time step and that number is compared to a threshold value that determined the migration frequency. For the simulations performed in this work, this threshold was chosen such that on average each cluster would migrate once every 100 timesteps. Mobile defect clusters are allowed to migrate to any adjacent node, as long as that motion would not lead to the concentration of that defect species to exceed one. When considering the migration of vacancy clusters, a proportionate amount of A and B species would be placed in the node originally containing the vacancy cluster, based on the original concentrations of A and B species in the target node. Defect clusters trapped at dislocations are not allowed to be displaced. If through a migration step defect clusters of opposite types ended up in the same node, the clusters are set to annihilate with each other, leaving behind the excess of the larger cluster.
2.4.2 Excess defect cluster growth If an interstitial defect cluster grows to a sufficient cluster size such that it fills an entire node (i.e., the sum of the interstitial cluster concentrations within any given node equaled or exceeded the sum of the A and B species concentrations), the excess cluster concentration is shuffled to adjacent nodes, based on the ratio of interstitial atoms of species A and B.

Defect Cluster Migration:
Migration of defect clusters is algorithmically managed through a random shuffling step. Vacancy clusters containing more than the equivalent concentration of five vacancies are considered immobile [44]. Interstitial clusters that are smaller than half the node size are allowed to migrate, as well as vacancy clusters smaller than five vacancies. For every mobile defect cluster, a random number is generated during each simulated time step and that number is compared to a threshold value that determined the migration frequency. For the simulations performed in this work, this threshold was chosen such that on average each cluster would migrate once every 100 timesteps. Mobile defect clusters are allowed to migrate to any adjacent node, as long as that motion would not lead to the concentration of that defect species to exceed one. When considering the migration of vacancy clusters, a proportionate amount of A and B species would be placed in the node originally containing the vacancy cluster, based on the original concentrations of A and B species in the target node. Defect clusters trapped at dislocations are not allowed to be displaced. If through a migration step defect clusters of opposite types ended up in the same node, the clusters are set to annihilate with each other, leaving behind the excess of the larger cluster.

Excess Defect Cluster Growth:
If an interstitial defect cluster grows to a sufficient cluster size such that it fills an entire node (i.e., the sum of the interstitial cluster concentrations within any given node equaled or exceeded the sum of the A and B species concentrations), the excess cluster concentration is shuffled to adjacent nodes, based on the ratio of interstitial atoms of species A and B.

Dislocations As Defect Sinks:
All defect species that are formed in or diffused to a node containing a dislocation can recombine with their opposite defect type (i.e., the total concentration of vacancy-type defects would be recombined with the total concentration of interstitial type defects). As mentioned previously in Section 2.2, point defect concentrations of zero would cause numerical instabilities due to the method of calculating the chemical potential. Therefore, the concentrations of the point-defect species at the dislocation are not allowed to fall below the previously defined thermal equilibrium concentration. This method preserves the number of lattice positions in the simulation volume, as well as the total amount of the A and B species.
2.5.1 Simulation setup For the simulations performed for this work, we chose material parameters for our model, binary alloy that are representative of a Ni–Cr alloy system [37]. All simulations were performed with a temperature of 673.15 K, chosen to represent an operating, intermediate temperature between 0.3 and 0.5 of the melting temperature of our model binary alloy. We used a 32 × 32 × 1 simulation grid with L equal to 14, a simulated time-step of one second, and an alloy concentration of 80 % species A and 20 % species B with a 5 % amplitude noise applied to the B field concentration, unless other parameters are noted separately. We performed a sensitivity study of the behavior of the model on the value of L , and observed a dependence on the value of L depending on the simulation conditions (see Appendix B). For simulations where defect clusters were unstable at all defect concentrations or simulations where the number of defect clusters did not increase during the irradiation process, no dependence on the value of L was observed. This observation is consistent with a similar analysis performed by Badillo et al. [9]. However, when new defect clusters were allowed to form during defect insertion and those defect clusters grew and were stable, a dependence on the value of L was observed. This is to be expected, as the model only considers the case where one defect cluster can exist in a node, and as the size of the node changes so does the number of defect sinks per unit volume. This dependence on the value of L is also anticipated to exist for simulations where dislocations are present, as changing the size of the simulation node would also directly change the dislocation density within the node. Plots of the evolution of the fraction of segregated solute and the sink concentration for simulations performed with cascade insertion, no dislocations, a maximum event energy T ^ of 10 keV, and a defect insertion rate of 1 dpa/month with varying L are provided in Appendix B. All other simulations parameters for these simulations match those described above. We note that the maximum size of defect clusters that can grow at a given node is also bounded by the value of L , such that depending on the parameters chosen for the simulation the sink concentration can be artificially restricted. We have chosen a value of L for our simulations where the assumption of only a single defect cluster per node is reasonable while also having large enough nodes to not impede defect cluster growth. We solved the governing equations for this model using an explicit Euler finite difference scheme. The model is implemented in Sandia’s in-house mesoscale multiphysics phase-field simulator MEMPHIS [38,45]. All simulations discussed in this work were performed with zero-flux boundary conditions applied to the edges of the simulated volume. A complete list of all the general simulation parameters is provided below in Table 3 . For the calculation of the chemical potentials of the two elemental species as described in Eq. (17), activity coefficients were interpolated based on the local alloy concentration from the data provided in [46].

Simulation Setup:
For the simulations performed for this work, we chose material parameters for our model, binary alloy that are representative of a Ni–Cr alloy system [37]. All simulations were performed with a temperature of 673.15 K, chosen to represent an operating, intermediate temperature between 0.3 and 0.5 of the melting temperature of our model binary alloy. We used a 32 × 32 × 1 simulation grid with L equal to 14, a simulated time-step of one second, and an alloy concentration of 80 % species A and 20 % species B with a 5 % amplitude noise applied to the B field concentration, unless other parameters are noted separately. We performed a sensitivity study of the behavior of the model on the value of L , and observed a dependence on the value of L depending on the simulation conditions (see Appendix B). For simulations where defect clusters were unstable at all defect concentrations or simulations where the number of defect clusters did not increase during the irradiation process, no dependence on the value of L was observed. This observation is consistent with a similar analysis performed by Badillo et al. [9]. However, when new defect clusters were allowed to form during defect insertion and those defect clusters grew and were stable, a dependence on the value of L was observed. This is to be expected, as the model only considers the case where one defect cluster can exist in a node, and as the size of the node changes so does the number of defect sinks per unit volume. This dependence on the value of L is also anticipated to exist for simulations where dislocations are present, as changing the size of the simulation node would also directly change the dislocation density within the node. Plots of the evolution of the fraction of segregated solute and the sink concentration for simulations performed with cascade insertion, no dislocations, a maximum event energy T ^ of 10 keV, and a defect insertion rate of 1 dpa/month with varying L are provided in Appendix B. All other simulations parameters for these simulations match those described above. We note that the maximum size of defect clusters that can grow at a given node is also bounded by the value of L , such that depending on the parameters chosen for the simulation the sink concentration can be artificially restricted. We have chosen a value of L for our simulations where the assumption of only a single defect cluster per node is reasonable while also having large enough nodes to not impede defect cluster growth.
We solved the governing equations for this model using an explicit Euler finite difference scheme. The model is implemented in Sandia’s in-house mesoscale multiphysics phase-field simulator MEMPHIS [38,45]. All simulations discussed in this work were performed with zero-flux boundary conditions applied to the edges of the simulated volume. A complete list of all the general simulation parameters is provided below in Table 3 . For the calculation of the chemical potentials of the two elemental species as described in Eq. (17), activity coefficients were interpolated based on the local alloy concentration from the data provided in [46].

Radiation Damage Insertion Methods: Frenkel Pairs Versus Cascade-like:
We consider two different methods of inserting radiation damage. The first and simplest of these methods is a Frenkel pair (FP) insertion, which is meant to emulate electron and light-ion irradiation conditions [10]. In this method, the vacancy-field variable within a target node is increased by the equivalent value of a single vacancy, as determined by the dimensionality of the simulation and the previously defined term L , which defines the size of each node in unit cells. Based on the local atomic composition, an interstitial atom of either type A or type B is created in either the same node as the vacancy or one of the immediately adjacent nodes.
These FP insertion events occur at a frequency determined by a target dose rate (in dpa/s). Since the simulation size, and thereby the total number of atoms within the simulation, is defined at the beginning of the simulation, the target dose rate can be achieved utilizing the following equation, (31) R FP=R target × t s × N at , where R FP is the number of FP insertion events to perform per timestep, R target is the target dose rate, t s is the duration of each timestep, and N at is the total number of atoms within the simulation volume.
The second method of radiation-damage insertion can be considered as a cascade-like insertion method, which is meant to resemble heavy-ion irradiation conditions [22,34]. This methodology uses the athermal-recombination-corrected displacement per atom (arc-dpa) and replacement per atom (rpa) standards of determining the number of defects and the size of the mixing region that forms as the result of a damage cascade being initiated by a particle with energy T [47]. This method approximates a radiation-damage cascade as a core-shell structure which is described by two different damage estimators. The first estimator is the number of displaced atoms (arc-dpa) that occurs in the shell of the approximated cascade, which is meant to capture the formation of long-range ballistic damage near the periphery of the thermal spike. The second estimator is a short-range thermal spike mixing damage (rpa) that occurs within the hot cascade core. The number of atoms involved in either the core or the shell of the approximated damage cascade initiated by a primary knock-on atom (PKA) with energy T are determined using the following equations, (32) N dpa / rpa={ 0 for T < E d 1 for E d < T < 2 E d 0.8 0.8 T 2 E d ξ dpa / rpa for 2 E d 0.8 < T < inf and, (33) ξ dpa ( T )=1 − c dpa ( 2 E d / 0.8 ) b dpa T b dpa + c dpa , (34) ξ rpa ( T )=[ b rpa c rpa ( 2 E d / 0.8 ) c rpa + 1 ] T c rpa b rpa c rpa + T c rpa , where E d is the threshold displacement energy, and b dpa , c dpa , b rpa , and c rpa are material specific constants determined from explicit PKA simulations or from experiments. Values for these constants used in simulations involving cascade-like damage insertion are provided in Table 4 [47].
In our model, N dpa vacancies are created within a randomly selected node, and N dpa interstitials are created either in the same node or any adjacent nodes. The fraction of interstitials that are of species A or B are sampled from the selected node’s concentrations of species A or B. To account for the recombination of pre-existing defects that can occur within the thermal spike of a damage cascade, the fraction of the node that is participating in the cascade is determined by dividing N rpa by the number of lattice positions per node. Then, the minimum defect fraction is determined by comparing the total vacancy concentration (i.e., the sum of the isolated vacancy concentration and the vacancy cluster concentration) in the event node to the total interstitial concentration. A random number between 0 and 1 is multiplied by the product of the minimum defect concentration and the fraction of the node that is participating in the cascade. This fraction of the minimum defect concentration is recombined with the other defect species according to the local distribution of point defects to defect clusters.
A maximum recoil energy is provided as an input into the model, and an event energy is sampled based on that maximum energy using the primary recoil spectrum calculated using the below equations [48]. (35) P ( E , T )=∫ E d T σ ( E , T ′ ) d T ′ ∫ E d T ^ σ ( E , T ′ ) d T ′ . Eq. (35) represents the fractional number of recoils between the minimum displacement energy E d and energy T , where T ^ is the maximum possible recoil energy, E is the incident ion energy, and σ ( E , T ) is the scattering cross section for heavy, slow ions with incident energy E and PKA energy T . The scattering cross-section can be approximated using the following equation, (36) σ ( E , T )=π 2 a 2 E a γ 1 / 2 8 E 1 / 2 T 3 / 2 , where a=0.8853 a 0 ( Z 1 Z 2 ) 1 / 6 ( Z 1 and Z 2 are the atomic numbers of the interacting atoms and a 0 is the Bohr radius), γ=4 M 1 M 2 ( M 1 + M 2 ) 2 ( M 1 and M 2 are the masses of the interacting atoms), and E a=13.6 ( Z 1 Z 2 ) 7 / 6 ( M 1 + M 2 ) ( M 2 ϵ ) ( ϵ is the unit charge). Eq. (36) enables us to determined the maximum energy being sampled during cascade insertion.
Determining the event rate for the cascade-like damage insertion method is slightly more complicated than determining the event rate for the FP insertion method, since the number of atoms displaced per event is not constant. For the simulations performed for this work, the event rate for cascade-like damage insertion was determined by sampling the primary recoil spectrum 100,000 times and calculating the N dpa from these sampled recoil energies. These N dpa values were averaged to determine an average number of displacements per event, which was then used to determine an event rate according to the equation, (37) R C=R target × t s × N at N dpa avg , where R C is the number of cascade-like damage insertions per timestep and N dpa avg is the average number of displacements per cascade-like damage insertion event. Defect clusters are introduced into the simulation by replacing a damage insertion event with a cluster insertion event. For both FP insertion and cascade insertion, a cluster insertion event occurs after the equivalent concentration of 4000 vacancies and interstitials have been inserted [9]. For the case of FP insertion, the cluster insertion event involved the formation of a vacancy cluster of size 4 forming in the event node, and two interstitial clusters of size 2 being formed in the nodes surrounding the event node. With cascade insertion, a vacancy cluster of size N dpa was formed in the event node and N dpa interstitials were randomly distributed to form interstitial clusters in the nodes adjacent to the event node.
Both FP and cascade-like approaches rely on the ability to adjust the defect and species concentrations in increments equivalent to one atom or defect within each node. As such, these methods cannot be used when the number of lattice positions within each node is small, as the probability that a node’s concentration for any of the elemental species or defect species falls to zero or below increases as the physical size represented by the node decreases. Given the size of our computational grid chosen for this study, we are limited in the spatial resolution that can be achieved for the stress fields induced by the presence of dislocation or grain boundaries, such as those performed in Zarnas et al. [27,49] and Moldaje et al. [36]. Indeed, the length-scale associated with the detailed stress fields is on the order of several lattice constants, below the dimension of the nodes used in the simulations for this work. Here, the stress field for pre-existing dislocations is therefore averaged over a given unit cell.

Results:
The accumulation of radiation-induced defects and the evolution of degradation mechanisms such as RIS is closely related to the irradiation conditions, including the flux of the incident particles (dose and dose rate) and particle type [15,17–19]. For example, irradiation via ion beam exposure can produce displacement rates of the order of 10 − 2 to 10 − 5 dpa/s, while exposure to neutron flux, as seen in a nuclear reactor, can produce displacement rates of the order of 10 − 7 to 10 − 12 dpa/s [44,48]. We examined the impact of dose rate on the accumulation of radiation-induced defects as well as the onset and progression of RIS in an idealized binary A-B alloy.
To study the relationship between dose rate and RIS, we performed simulations with five different dose rates: 1 dpa/day (1.1574 × 10 − 5 dpa/s), 1 dpa/week (1.6534 × 10 − 6 ), 1 dpa/month (3.858 × 10 − 7 dpa/s), 1 dpa/six months (6.43 × 10 − 8 dpa/s), and 1 dpa/year (3.171 × 10 − 8 dpa/s). The high dose rates correspond to conditions that would be seen in ion beam environments while the slowest dose rates correspond to environments seen in a nuclear reactor. Unless otherwise mentioned, we used cascade-like insertion with no dislocations present in the simulation cell. No defect clusters are present in these systems at the beginning of irradiation except for the calculations with a dislocation present in the simulation cell. As the simulation progresses and therefore dose increases, defect clusters are allowed to form and grow as a consequence of the insertion of damage events as described in Section 2.6. The nucleation and growth of these defect clusters create the necessary conditions for the development of intrinsic sinks within the simulation cell for RIS to occur.
3.1 Accumulation of point defects and sinks We first look at the accumulation of point defects and defect sinks in our exemplar binary A–B alloy irradiated at three different dose rates (high, medium, and low or equivalently 1dpa/day, 1 dpa/month, and 1dpa/year) up to a final dose of 10 dpa. As shown in Fig. 1 (a)–(c), it is clear from these different defect evolution plots that the total concentration of point defects is of a lesser extent with decreasing dose rates for equivalent doses. This trend is intuitive, since the point defects that are produced in material systems irradiated at lower dose rates will allow for defects to have more time to recombine or be trapped at defect sinks, resulting in a lower point-defect concentration at an equivalent dose compared to systems irradiated at higher dose rates. Second, we note that the point-defect concentrations reach a steady-state value prior to a divergence between the interstitial and vacancy concentrations. The threshold dose at which this steady concentration is reached tends to be lower with lower dose rates and occurs within a narrow range of doses between 0.01 to 0.5 dpa. Due to differences in diffusion behavior between the point-defect species, it is expected that the concentrations of vacancies and interstitials should diverge as one of the two species will diffuse to and annihilate at defect sinks at a higher rate. In our model, defect concentrations are perfectly conserved, meaning that the number of free and trapped vacancies and interstitials must always be the same. Because of this constraint on the model, we observe that above the dose rate of 1 dpa/day, the free vacancy concentration decreases below that of the free interstitials, as a greater number of vacancies become preferentially trapped to form vacancy clusters. At the dose rate of 1 dpa/day, the free vacancy concentration is observed to be above that of the free interstitials. This predicted behavior where the concentration of free vacancies decreases below that of the free interstitials at dose rates above 1 dpa/day in the model does deviate from the behavior described in traditional rate-equation models such as those shown in Was [48]. This is likely due to the conservatory nature of our model. In real material systems, defect sinks do not necessarily conserve the species that the model tracks. For example, defect migration to a defect sink such as a dislocation does not necessarily preserve the integrity of the defect type (i.e., vacancy loss at a dislocation does not necessarily return a trapped interstitial to a standard lattice position). Depending on the simulation parameters, the preference of the simulation to store more defects in the form of interstitial or vacancy clusters will determine which point defect has a higher concentration. The point defect concentrations shown in Fig. 1(a)–(c) are high compared to the concentrations typically observed in experiments. This behavior is caused by the combination of several factors. The simulations are meant to recreate single crystal environments and do not include the effects of pre-existing defect sinks such as grain boundaries or free surfaces. Additionally, test simulations at various dose rates have shown that the point defect concentrations are highly dependent on the magnitude of the Onsager coefficients used in Eqs. (1) and (2). While the concentrations may be elevated with respect to experimental values, the dose-rate dependent trends observed in the evolution of the defect species and progression of segregation still hold and compare well with experimental observations. Looking at the evolution of sink concentration as a function of dose in Fig. 1(d), it is clear that, given the lack of consistent ordering between the different dose rates and the statistical noise present, the evolution of sink concentration is insensitive to the dose rate. From Fig. 1(d) and (e) we note that the rate at which sinks accumulate within the microstructure is approximately similar regardless of the dose rate. The only difference between the different dose rates is the incubation time at which defect sinks start to appear. Minor differences between the defect accumulation behavior of the proposed phase-field model and the behavior seen in other phase-field models [9,10] as well as the simple rate-theory model proposed by Was [48] are due to how the density of defect sinks is handled. In some phase-field [10] and rate-theory models [27,48], defect sink densities are static and cannot be changed by the annihilation of defects at those sinks. In the work by Badillo et al. [9], the defect density results were shown for simulations where pre-existing defect clusters were present at the beginning of the simulation, and the parameters were tuned such that these clusters did not change in size significantly throughout the course of the simulation. The simulations whose results are shown in Fig. 2 (a) and (b) allowed the formation of new clusters during irradiation, the migration of defect clusters depending on the size and type of the cluster, and changes in the sizes of clusters throughout the course of the simulation. This change in the effective sink density with respect to defect clusters as sinks is a more realistic but imperfect representation of how defect clusters evolve in real irradiated systems.
3.2 Dose-rate effect on radiation-induced segregation We now turn our attention to the RIS phenomenon in the absence of dislocations. Fig. 2(a) and (b) show the evolution of RIS in terms of the amount of solute that has been trapped at segregation sites as a function of dose and time respectively for five different dose rates. Early in the irradiation process and at low doses, we observe that the amount of solute contained in nodes fluctuates around small concentration values. This behavior is likely due to the random atomic shuffling that occur as a result of the cascade-like insertion steps and the initially low density of sinks. After a dose-rate-dependent incubation period (either in terms of dose or time), the fraction of segregated solutes steadily increases. When considering the development of RIS in terms of applied dose, as shown in Fig. 2(a), there is a consistent trend where increasing the dose rate (from dpa/year to dpa/day) results in an increase of the incubation dose and a decrease in the amount of segregated solute at any given dose past the incubation dose. These observations are consistent with experimental observations made for a variety of material systems exposed to a wide range of irradiation conditions. These experimental observations [17–19] consistently pointed out that an increase in the dose rate, while maintaining other conditions fixed, resulted in a decrease in the progression of RIS. When considering the development of RIS as a function of time in Fig. 2(b) rather than as a function of dose, RIS is observed to develop later in time as the dose rate decreases. An interesting observation from Fig. 2(a) and (b) is that at large doses, our results indicate that there is a saturation behavior with respect to the dose-rate effect on the evolution of RIS, such that further decreases in the dose rate below 1 dpa/6 months does not result in a measurable change in the evolution of RIS as a function of dose. Fig. 3 illustrates the spatial distribution of segregated solutes for three different dose rates at doses of 1 and 10 dpa respectively. We note through these illustrations that segregated solutes are uniformly distributed throughout the microstructure regardless of the dose rate. For high dose rates, such as the 1 dpa/day, the degree of segregation that has developed at the final dose of 10 dpa is relatively low, with the solute concentration at the segregation sites having increased by only around 5 to 15% above the maximum initial solute concentration. This particular segregation behavior is likely driven by the rapid rate at which solute atoms are shuffled around due to the formation of interstitials and interstitial clusters, which at this dose rate is enough to work against diffusion to impede the development of RIS. Decreasing the dose rate to 1 dpa/month, a significant increase in RIS behavior is observed, with more segregation sites having formed and the segregation sites having higher solute concentrations (up to 20% above the maximum initial solute concentration). Going from 1 dpa/month to 1 dpa/year, we observe another increase in the number of segregation sites as well as the solute concentration at those segregation sites (up to 40% above the maximum initial solute concentration). The amount of solute segregation in Fig. 3 seems to be confined to individual nodes, with an exponential decay in the concentration of the solute species in adjacent nodes. In all of these simulations, segregation sites also contain defect clusters serving as nucleation sites for the development of RIS. These observations align with experimental and computational observations made by Was and Allen [19], where radiation-induced segregation and depletion profiles were tightly bound to within 2nm of defect sinks. The fraction of segregation nodes plotted as a function of dose and time in Fig. 3 further completes this picture by providing insight on the density of segregated solutes. We note that density of solute segregates increases with decreasing dose rate. In other words, the efficiency with which defect clusters act as segregation sites is dose-rate dependent, with higher dose rates resulting in less segregation for the same concentration of defect clusters. This efficiency is to be expected since lower dose rate conditions allow for solute species to migrate to defect sink for longer periods of times and concomitantly, defect sinks have more time to nucleate and grow.
3.3 Onset of radiation-induced segregation and incubation dose By plotting the fraction of excess solute against sink concentration in Fig. 4 (a), we reveal the onset of RIS, i.e. the necessary condition for RIS to start. Indeed, we note that the onset of RIS occurs once the sink concentration within the microstructure reaches a threshold concentration which depends on the dose rate. Once this threshold concentration is attained, RIS develops with the same proportionality constant with respect to the sink concentration. For the very high dose rates (i.e., 1 dpa/week and 1 dpa/day), this proportionality constant appears to be larger than for the lower dose rates. We can then use this threshold concentration value to identify the incubation dose at which RIS starts. We note in Fig. 4 (b) that the higher the dose rate, the higher the incubation dose for RIS. This dependence of the incubation period on dose rate has been observed experimentally [19,50,51] (see for instance Fig. 6 in [19]) indicating that our model accurately reproduces the relationship between the dose rate and the development of radiation-induced segregation.
3.4 Effect of incident particle type The results in the above subsections corresponded to simulations using the cascade-like insertion method. As discussed in Section 2.6, different irradiation types generate radiation damage in different ways [19]. Irradiation by electrons and light ion tends to result in the formation of distributed Frenkel pairs, since each collision between the ballistic electron and the atoms within the material lacks the necessary energy to produce collision cascades. Conversely, irradiation by ballistic heavy ions results in the formation of collision cascades, which can produce both Frenkel pairs as well as defect clusters within individual damage events. Damage cascades also result in a greater amount of local atomic mixing than FP insertion, which can lead to redistribution of the local alloy as well as recombination of any pre-existing defects that are within the thermal spike region of the cascade. In this section we examine the impact that different radiation damage insertion methods have on the onset and development of RIS in a binary alloy. We ran simulations utilizing the FP insertion at four different dose rates: 1 dpa/day (1.1574 × 10 − 5 dpa/s), 1 dpa/week (1.6534 × 10 − 6 ), 1 dpa/month (3.858 × 10 − 7 dpa/s), and 1 dpa/6 months (6.43 × 10 − 8 dpa/s). We compare in Fig. 5 the evolution of the concentrations of point defects as a function of dose for material systems irradiated with a dose rate of 1 dpa/month via cascade-like insertion and FP insertion. We note that the change in damage insertion type does not result in a drastic change in the evolution of the concentrations of the point defects, with the most noticeable change being a slightly lower concentration of both interstitials and vacancies in the system irradiated via cascade-like insertion. In terms of the progression of solute segregation, we show in Fig. 6(a) the evolution of the fraction of excess solute as a function of dose when using the FP insertion method. In this figure, we observe a much faster saturation of the dose rate effect on the maximum amount of segregated solute, with all dose rates above 1 dpa/day having nearly identical behavior at doses above approximately 1 dpa. When comparing the fraction of segregated nodes between cascade insertion and FP insertion in Fig. 6(b) (in this case for a dose rate of 1 dpa/month), we note that the methods yield different RIS behavior at high doses (i.e., dose greater than 1 dpa). This difference at high dose can mostly be explained by the propensity of cascades to generate more surviving clusters and the cumulative effect of atomic mixing as the dose increases in the case of cascade-like insertion. This trend is again easily explained by the fact that the FP insertion yields a more uniform distribution of Frenkel pairs as compared to the cascade-like insertion method, which has a dose-rate dependent effect on the incubation dose. These predictions from our model are supported by experimental observations for ion-irradiated specimens made by Averback et al. [52] and Rehn et al. [15], who reported a relative low sink densities for Ni–Si samples irradiated with protons. However, for their samples irradiated with Kr, their microscopy observations indicated that irradiation-induced internal sinks do become significant. For additional comparison, the results for a cascade-insertion simulation with a much lower maximum event energy of 2 keV (like light ion or proton irradiation) are also shown in Fig. 6(b), with the results of that simulation falling below the results of the higher energy cascade insertion simulation and above the FP insertion results in an intermediate dose regime, eventually rising above the higher energy simulation at doses above approximately 5 dpa. In Fig. 6(c), the incubation dose as a function of dose rate for FP insertion has a consistent trend of increasing with increasing dose rate. When comparing the dependence of the incubation dose on the dose rate between the two insertion methods, we note that there is a dose-rate dependent trend with a cross-over point at 1 dpa/week, above which the FP insertion technique has a higher incubation dose and below which the cascade-insertion technique has a higher incubation dose. From these observations, our model predicts that materials exposed to irradiation via heavy ion bombardment (cascade-like) will display RIS behavior at earlier times and lower doses at high dose rates, and at later times and higher doses at lower dose rates.
3.5 Effect of the presence of dislocations Through our examination of the dependence of RIS development on the dose rate as well as the type of incident particle type, we showed that in our model RIS initiates within nodes containing defect sinks. Another common type of defect sinks present within metallic systems is dislocations, which can show up in the form of an isolated line or loop and that can be organized or in random networks such as those present in grain boundaries and highly irradiated systems, respectively. To examine the effect of the presence of dislocations on RIS behavior, we performed simulations with a single edge dislocation inserted at a central node within the simulated volume and tested all previously tested dose rates. We illustrate in Fig. 7 the distribution of solute segregates after 10 dpa for three different dose rates (1 dpa/day, 1 dpa/month, and 1 dpa/year) when a dislocation is present within the simulation cell. For these simulations, given the size of the simulation domain, the effective dislocation density is 2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 . Comparing Fig. 7 to the relevant panels in Fig. 3, we observe that the dislocation serves as a nucleation site for segregation for all tested dose rates. When solute species have time to diffuse within the simulation cell (i.e., when the dose rate is low), solute tends to accumulate near the dislocation line, beneath the glide plane of the edge dislocation. In our model, we considered solutes as non-overlapping spherical misfitting inclusions with purely positive dilatational eigenstrain (see Section 2.3). It has been shown in this case [53,54] that the equilibrium solute distribution around an infinitely long, straight edge dislocation follows a Fermi-Dirac distribution. Comparisons between the defect concentrations found in Fig. 1 for simulations utilizing cascade-like damage insertion without the presence of dislocations with those in the simulations containing a dislocation, no immediate differences were noticeable. There are two possible reasons why the introduction of a dislocation had a minimal impact on the progression of the simulations. The first is the way the dislocation serves as a sink for defects, as described in Section 2.5, where the dislocation only serves as a site for enhanced defect recombination rather than as a true defect sink. In real systems, annihilation of defects at defect sinks such as dislocations would not necessarily conserve defect counts, which may lead to different behavior in the evolution of the concentrations of defects. The second possible cause is the low density of dislocations within the performed simulations. With the simulation volume used here, the equivalent dislocation density is only 2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 . All of the previous simulations were performed with the same number of nodes, meaning that all simulated volumes had the same physical dimensions. For simulations performed without any extrinsic sinks, this is expected to have little to no impact on the evolution of the system under irradiation, since all of the rate terms as well as the damage insertion are scaled via the dimensions of the simulation [9]. However, once an extrinsic sink is present, the density of those applied sinks can have an impact on the evolution of the systems. Therefore, we performed simulations at a dose rate of 1 dpa/month with cascade-like damage insertion for different dimensions ( 32 × 32 , 25 × 25 , 18 × 18 ) and thereby different dislocation densities (2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 , 1.03 × 10 14 m − 2 , and 1.98 × 10 14 m − 2 ) as a way to examine the impact of dislocation density on RIS. The bottom plot in Fig. 7 shows the evolution of excess solutes for these three dislocation densities. At low doses, the difference in the density of dislocations does result in an increase in the magnitude of excess solute with increase dislocation density. As the applied dose increases, these differences mostly disappear, with the three simulations behaving similarly throughout the rest of the irradiation process. The lack of clear correlation between the density of dislocations and the progression of RIS in the model is also likely linked to how RIS in the model is reliant on defect clusters as nucleation sites. Since the dislocations primarily enhances RIS by pinning defect clusters and enhancing defect recombination, the effect of the dislocation as a sink is confined to the node containing the dislocation. Also, due to the physical size attributed to the nodes is large, the impact of the stress field on the diffusion of point defects is also quite low compared to simulations with much smaller physical dimensions [27]. Increasing the dislocation density by introducing multiple dislocations at once or by reducing the size of the simulation node is expected to eventually impact the evolution of RIS as the impact of dislocations as defect sinks grows with respect to the impact of defect clusters as sinks. Decreasing the size of the simulation node will also change how the stress field induced by the dislocation impacts the diffusion of defects and segregation of solute near the dislocation, as the strength of the stress field described by Eqs. (26), (27), and (28) falls off significantly over a distance of several nanometers.

Accumulation Of Point Defects And Sinks:
We first look at the accumulation of point defects and defect sinks in our exemplar binary A–B alloy irradiated at three different dose rates (high, medium, and low or equivalently 1dpa/day, 1 dpa/month, and 1dpa/year) up to a final dose of 10 dpa. As shown in Fig. 1 (a)–(c), it is clear from these different defect evolution plots that the total concentration of point defects is of a lesser extent with decreasing dose rates for equivalent doses. This trend is intuitive, since the point defects that are produced in material systems irradiated at lower dose rates will allow for defects to have more time to recombine or be trapped at defect sinks, resulting in a lower point-defect concentration at an equivalent dose compared to systems irradiated at higher dose rates. Second, we note that the point-defect concentrations reach a steady-state value prior to a divergence between the interstitial and vacancy concentrations. The threshold dose at which this steady concentration is reached tends to be lower with lower dose rates and occurs within a narrow range of doses between 0.01 to 0.5 dpa. Due to differences in diffusion behavior between the point-defect species, it is expected that the concentrations of vacancies and interstitials should diverge as one of the two species will diffuse to and annihilate at defect sinks at a higher rate. In our model, defect concentrations are perfectly conserved, meaning that the number of free and trapped vacancies and interstitials must always be the same. Because of this constraint on the model, we observe that above the dose rate of 1 dpa/day, the free vacancy concentration decreases below that of the free interstitials, as a greater number of vacancies become preferentially trapped to form vacancy clusters. At the dose rate of 1 dpa/day, the free vacancy concentration is observed to be above that of the free interstitials.
This predicted behavior where the concentration of free vacancies decreases below that of the free interstitials at dose rates above 1 dpa/day in the model does deviate from the behavior described in traditional rate-equation models such as those shown in Was [48]. This is likely due to the conservatory nature of our model. In real material systems, defect sinks do not necessarily conserve the species that the model tracks. For example, defect migration to a defect sink such as a dislocation does not necessarily preserve the integrity of the defect type (i.e., vacancy loss at a dislocation does not necessarily return a trapped interstitial to a standard lattice position). Depending on the simulation parameters, the preference of the simulation to store more defects in the form of interstitial or vacancy clusters will determine which point defect has a higher concentration.
The point defect concentrations shown in Fig. 1(a)–(c) are high compared to the concentrations typically observed in experiments. This behavior is caused by the combination of several factors. The simulations are meant to recreate single crystal environments and do not include the effects of pre-existing defect sinks such as grain boundaries or free surfaces. Additionally, test simulations at various dose rates have shown that the point defect concentrations are highly dependent on the magnitude of the Onsager coefficients used in Eqs. (1) and (2). While the concentrations may be elevated with respect to experimental values, the dose-rate dependent trends observed in the evolution of the defect species and progression of segregation still hold and compare well with experimental observations.
Looking at the evolution of sink concentration as a function of dose in Fig. 1(d), it is clear that, given the lack of consistent ordering between the different dose rates and the statistical noise present, the evolution of sink concentration is insensitive to the dose rate. From Fig. 1(d) and (e) we note that the rate at which sinks accumulate within the microstructure is approximately similar regardless of the dose rate. The only difference between the different dose rates is the incubation time at which defect sinks start to appear.
Minor differences between the defect accumulation behavior of the proposed phase-field model and the behavior seen in other phase-field models [9,10] as well as the simple rate-theory model proposed by Was [48] are due to how the density of defect sinks is handled. In some phase-field [10] and rate-theory models [27,48], defect sink densities are static and cannot be changed by the annihilation of defects at those sinks. In the work by Badillo et al. [9], the defect density results were shown for simulations where pre-existing defect clusters were present at the beginning of the simulation, and the parameters were tuned such that these clusters did not change in size significantly throughout the course of the simulation. The simulations whose results are shown in Fig. 2 (a) and (b) allowed the formation of new clusters during irradiation, the migration of defect clusters depending on the size and type of the cluster, and changes in the sizes of clusters throughout the course of the simulation. This change in the effective sink density with respect to defect clusters as sinks is a more realistic but imperfect representation of how defect clusters evolve in real irradiated systems.

Dose-rate Effect On Radiation-induced Segregation:
We now turn our attention to the RIS phenomenon in the absence of dislocations. Fig. 2(a) and (b) show the evolution of RIS in terms of the amount of solute that has been trapped at segregation sites as a function of dose and time respectively for five different dose rates. Early in the irradiation process and at low doses, we observe that the amount of solute contained in nodes fluctuates around small concentration values. This behavior is likely due to the random atomic shuffling that occur as a result of the cascade-like insertion steps and the initially low density of sinks. After a dose-rate-dependent incubation period (either in terms of dose or time), the fraction of segregated solutes steadily increases. When considering the development of RIS in terms of applied dose, as shown in Fig. 2(a), there is a consistent trend where increasing the dose rate (from dpa/year to dpa/day) results in an increase of the incubation dose and a decrease in the amount of segregated solute at any given dose past the incubation dose. These observations are consistent with experimental observations made for a variety of material systems exposed to a wide range of irradiation conditions. These experimental observations [17–19] consistently pointed out that an increase in the dose rate, while maintaining other conditions fixed, resulted in a decrease in the progression of RIS. When considering the development of RIS as a function of time in Fig. 2(b) rather than as a function of dose, RIS is observed to develop later in time as the dose rate decreases. An interesting observation from Fig. 2(a) and (b) is that at large doses, our results indicate that there is a saturation behavior with respect to the dose-rate effect on the evolution of RIS, such that further decreases in the dose rate below 1 dpa/6 months does not result in a measurable change in the evolution of RIS as a function of dose.
Fig. 3 illustrates the spatial distribution of segregated solutes for three different dose rates at doses of 1 and 10 dpa respectively. We note through these illustrations that segregated solutes are uniformly distributed throughout the microstructure regardless of the dose rate. For high dose rates, such as the 1 dpa/day, the degree of segregation that has developed at the final dose of 10 dpa is relatively low, with the solute concentration at the segregation sites having increased by only around 5 to 15% above the maximum initial solute concentration. This particular segregation behavior is likely driven by the rapid rate at which solute atoms are shuffled around due to the formation of interstitials and interstitial clusters, which at this dose rate is enough to work against diffusion to impede the development of RIS. Decreasing the dose rate to 1 dpa/month, a significant increase in RIS behavior is observed, with more segregation sites having formed and the segregation sites having higher solute concentrations (up to 20% above the maximum initial solute concentration). Going from 1 dpa/month to 1 dpa/year, we observe another increase in the number of segregation sites as well as the solute concentration at those segregation sites (up to 40% above the maximum initial solute concentration).
The amount of solute segregation in Fig. 3 seems to be confined to individual nodes, with an exponential decay in the concentration of the solute species in adjacent nodes. In all of these simulations, segregation sites also contain defect clusters serving as nucleation sites for the development of RIS. These observations align with experimental and computational observations made by Was and Allen [19], where radiation-induced segregation and depletion profiles were tightly bound to within 2nm of defect sinks.
The fraction of segregation nodes plotted as a function of dose and time in Fig. 3 further completes this picture by providing insight on the density of segregated solutes. We note that density of solute segregates increases with decreasing dose rate. In other words, the efficiency with which defect clusters act as segregation sites is dose-rate dependent, with higher dose rates resulting in less segregation for the same concentration of defect clusters. This efficiency is to be expected since lower dose rate conditions allow for solute species to migrate to defect sink for longer periods of times and concomitantly, defect sinks have more time to nucleate and grow.

Onset Of Radiation-induced Segregation And Incubation Dose:
By plotting the fraction of excess solute against sink concentration in Fig. 4 (a), we reveal the onset of RIS, i.e. the necessary condition for RIS to start. Indeed, we note that the onset of RIS occurs once the sink concentration within the microstructure reaches a threshold concentration which depends on the dose rate. Once this threshold concentration is attained, RIS develops with the same proportionality constant with respect to the sink concentration. For the very high dose rates (i.e., 1 dpa/week and 1 dpa/day), this proportionality constant appears to be larger than for the lower dose rates.
We can then use this threshold concentration value to identify the incubation dose at which RIS starts. We note in Fig. 4 (b) that the higher the dose rate, the higher the incubation dose for RIS. This dependence of the incubation period on dose rate has been observed experimentally [19,50,51] (see for instance Fig. 6 in [19]) indicating that our model accurately reproduces the relationship between the dose rate and the development of radiation-induced segregation.

Effect Of Incident Particle Type:
The results in the above subsections corresponded to simulations using the cascade-like insertion method. As discussed in Section 2.6, different irradiation types generate radiation damage in different ways [19]. Irradiation by electrons and light ion tends to result in the formation of distributed Frenkel pairs, since each collision between the ballistic electron and the atoms within the material lacks the necessary energy to produce collision cascades. Conversely, irradiation by ballistic heavy ions results in the formation of collision cascades, which can produce both Frenkel pairs as well as defect clusters within individual damage events. Damage cascades also result in a greater amount of local atomic mixing than FP insertion, which can lead to redistribution of the local alloy as well as recombination of any pre-existing defects that are within the thermal spike region of the cascade.
In this section we examine the impact that different radiation damage insertion methods have on the onset and development of RIS in a binary alloy. We ran simulations utilizing the FP insertion at four different dose rates: 1 dpa/day (1.1574 × 10 − 5 dpa/s), 1 dpa/week (1.6534 × 10 − 6 ), 1 dpa/month (3.858 × 10 − 7 dpa/s), and 1 dpa/6 months (6.43 × 10 − 8 dpa/s). We compare in Fig. 5 the evolution of the concentrations of point defects as a function of dose for material systems irradiated with a dose rate of 1 dpa/month via cascade-like insertion and FP insertion. We note that the change in damage insertion type does not result in a drastic change in the evolution of the concentrations of the point defects, with the most noticeable change being a slightly lower concentration of both interstitials and vacancies in the system irradiated via cascade-like insertion.
In terms of the progression of solute segregation, we show in Fig. 6(a) the evolution of the fraction of excess solute as a function of dose when using the FP insertion method. In this figure, we observe a much faster saturation of the dose rate effect on the maximum amount of segregated solute, with all dose rates above 1 dpa/day having nearly identical behavior at doses above approximately 1 dpa. When comparing the fraction of segregated nodes between cascade insertion and FP insertion in Fig. 6(b) (in this case for a dose rate of 1 dpa/month), we note that the methods yield different RIS behavior at high doses (i.e., dose greater than 1 dpa). This difference at high dose can mostly be explained by the propensity of cascades to generate more surviving clusters and the cumulative effect of atomic mixing as the dose increases in the case of cascade-like insertion. This trend is again easily explained by the fact that the FP insertion yields a more uniform distribution of Frenkel pairs as compared to the cascade-like insertion method, which has a dose-rate dependent effect on the incubation dose. These predictions from our model are supported by experimental observations for ion-irradiated specimens made by Averback et al. [52] and Rehn et al. [15], who reported a relative low sink densities for Ni–Si samples irradiated with protons. However, for their samples irradiated with Kr, their microscopy observations indicated that irradiation-induced internal sinks do become significant. For additional comparison, the results for a cascade-insertion simulation with a much lower maximum event energy of 2 keV (like light ion or proton irradiation) are also shown in Fig. 6(b), with the results of that simulation falling below the results of the higher energy cascade insertion simulation and above the FP insertion results in an intermediate dose regime, eventually rising above the higher energy simulation at doses above approximately 5 dpa.
In Fig. 6(c), the incubation dose as a function of dose rate for FP insertion has a consistent trend of increasing with increasing dose rate. When comparing the dependence of the incubation dose on the dose rate between the two insertion methods, we note that there is a dose-rate dependent trend with a cross-over point at 1 dpa/week, above which the FP insertion technique has a higher incubation dose and below which the cascade-insertion technique has a higher incubation dose. From these observations, our model predicts that materials exposed to irradiation via heavy ion bombardment (cascade-like) will display RIS behavior at earlier times and lower doses at high dose rates, and at later times and higher doses at lower dose rates.

Effect Of The Presence Of Dislocations:
Through our examination of the dependence of RIS development on the dose rate as well as the type of incident particle type, we showed that in our model RIS initiates within nodes containing defect sinks. Another common type of defect sinks present within metallic systems is dislocations, which can show up in the form of an isolated line or loop and that can be organized or in random networks such as those present in grain boundaries and highly irradiated systems, respectively. To examine the effect of the presence of dislocations on RIS behavior, we performed simulations with a single edge dislocation inserted at a central node within the simulated volume and tested all previously tested dose rates.
We illustrate in Fig. 7 the distribution of solute segregates after 10 dpa for three different dose rates (1 dpa/day, 1 dpa/month, and 1 dpa/year) when a dislocation is present within the simulation cell. For these simulations, given the size of the simulation domain, the effective dislocation density is 2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 . Comparing Fig. 7 to the relevant panels in Fig. 3, we observe that the dislocation serves as a nucleation site for segregation for all tested dose rates. When solute species have time to diffuse within the simulation cell (i.e., when the dose rate is low), solute tends to accumulate near the dislocation line, beneath the glide plane of the edge dislocation. In our model, we considered solutes as non-overlapping spherical misfitting inclusions with purely positive dilatational eigenstrain (see Section 2.3). It has been shown in this case [53,54] that the equilibrium solute distribution around an infinitely long, straight edge dislocation follows a Fermi-Dirac distribution.
Comparisons between the defect concentrations found in Fig. 1 for simulations utilizing cascade-like damage insertion without the presence of dislocations with those in the simulations containing a dislocation, no immediate differences were noticeable. There are two possible reasons why the introduction of a dislocation had a minimal impact on the progression of the simulations. The first is the way the dislocation serves as a sink for defects, as described in Section 2.5, where the dislocation only serves as a site for enhanced defect recombination rather than as a true defect sink. In real systems, annihilation of defects at defect sinks such as dislocations would not necessarily conserve defect counts, which may lead to different behavior in the evolution of the concentrations of defects. The second possible cause is the low density of dislocations within the performed simulations. With the simulation volume used here, the equivalent dislocation density is only 2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 .
All of the previous simulations were performed with the same number of nodes, meaning that all simulated volumes had the same physical dimensions. For simulations performed without any extrinsic sinks, this is expected to have little to no impact on the evolution of the system under irradiation, since all of the rate terms as well as the damage insertion are scaled via the dimensions of the simulation [9]. However, once an extrinsic sink is present, the density of those applied sinks can have an impact on the evolution of the systems. Therefore, we performed simulations at a dose rate of 1 dpa/month with cascade-like damage insertion for different dimensions ( 32 × 32 , 25 × 25 , 18 × 18 ) and thereby different dislocation densities (2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 , 1.03 × 10 14 m − 2 , and 1.98 × 10 14 m − 2 ) as a way to examine the impact of dislocation density on RIS.
The bottom plot in Fig. 7 shows the evolution of excess solutes for these three dislocation densities. At low doses, the difference in the density of dislocations does result in an increase in the magnitude of excess solute with increase dislocation density. As the applied dose increases, these differences mostly disappear, with the three simulations behaving similarly throughout the rest of the irradiation process. The lack of clear correlation between the density of dislocations and the progression of RIS in the model is also likely linked to how RIS in the model is reliant on defect clusters as nucleation sites. Since the dislocations primarily enhances RIS by pinning defect clusters and enhancing defect recombination, the effect of the dislocation as a sink is confined to the node containing the dislocation. Also, due to the physical size attributed to the nodes is large, the impact of the stress field on the diffusion of point defects is also quite low compared to simulations with much smaller physical dimensions [27]. Increasing the dislocation density by introducing multiple dislocations at once or by reducing the size of the simulation node is expected to eventually impact the evolution of RIS as the impact of dislocations as defect sinks grows with respect to the impact of defect clusters as sinks. Decreasing the size of the simulation node will also change how the stress field induced by the dislocation impacts the diffusion of defects and segregation of solute near the dislocation, as the strength of the stress field described by Eqs. (26), (27), and (28) falls off significantly over a distance of several nanometers.

Discussion:
Several experimental and theoretical studies have investigated the temperature shift required at different dose rates to achieve equivalent radiation-induced damage or segregation in alloys [44,48,55,56]. The results presented above in Figs. 2(a) and 4(b) give us an indication of a possible equivalence of RIS behaviors between different dose rates. We define two conditions: (i) targeted dose rate irradiation conditions and (ii) proxy dose rate irradiation conditions that are required to produce similar RIS behavior as the one seen in the target conditions. Given the difference in incubation dose as a function of dose rate, we are interested in defining the required shift in dose when changing the dose rate from the target to the proxy conditions. The increase or decrease in dose (i.e., a positive or negative dose shift) is found for the two-dimensional input space of targeted and proxy dose rates using the fraction of excess solutes for both conditions as the metric for equivalent RIS behavior. Note that in order to find the dose shift required by changing the dose rate, all other variables associated with the model such as the geometry of the simulated sample and more importantly the temperature are the same for simulations at target and proxy conditions. We considered cascade-like insertion, with no dislocation present.
Fig. 8 shows maps of the dose shift found for various levels of solute segregation (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%). For example, if we want to use a proxy dose rate of 1 dpa/week (i.e.,∼1.6 × 10 − 6 dpa/s) as a way to emulate RIS behavior seen in a targeted environment where the dose rate is 1 dpa/year (i.e.,∼3.2 × 10 − 8 dpa/s), the dose at which a specific RIS behavior is observed in the proxy condition corresponds to a shifted dose that ranges from +0.364 dpa for low levels of RIS (see panel (a)) to +4.805 dpa for 20% of segregated solutes (see panel (d)) in the targeted environment. We observe that in general the larger the proxy dose rate, the larger the shift in dose to emulate equivalent RIS conditions in the targeted irradiation conditions. This is one of the reasons we have blacked out quadrants in Fig. 8. These quadrants indicate that the simulations performed were not run to sufficient damage level (the maximum dose simulated is 10 dpa for all dose rate tested) or that the proxy conditions do not allow for an equivalence with the targeted irradiation conditions.
Although this study addresses the effect of compensating for changes in dose rate by changing the dose, there are several other factors which in practice need to be considered in addition to this shift and that are not treated here. To the first order, one needs also consider a shift in temperature with using different dose rate in the proxy conditions. Past studies [44,48,55,56] have shown that using a proxy irradiation condition requires an increase in temperature to emulate lower dose rates. Obviously, increasing the temperature will result in an increase in the mobility of the atomic species at play and these effects are in turn correlated with the concept of shifting the dose presented here. It is reasonable to posit that both a shift in temperature and in dose are ultimately needed to use proxy conditions to emulate a targeted environments as far as RIS is concerned. There are also other factors that could also potentially impact how to calibrate proxy conditions. For instance, neutron irradiation of metals also creates transmutation products such as hydrogen and helium, which can significantly influence RIS by acting as traps [57–59].

Conclusions:
In this study we examine the relationships between radiation-induced segregation and dose, dose rate, and irradiation type via phase-field simulations. These simulations account for various processes governing RIS including the formation and evolution of point defects as well as defect clusters, the diffusion and clustering of alloy species, the presence of additional defect sinks in the form of dislocations, and two different methods of radiation-damage insertion, which are intended to simulate either light-ion/electron irradiation via Frenkel pairs or heavy-ion irradiation in the form of cascades. Our simulation results are in good agreement with many experimental observations over a broad range of conditions tested. Our results show that: • Decreasing the dose rate leads to a decrease of the incubation dose and an increase in the amount of segregated solute and a higher density of solute precipitates at any given dose past the incubation dose. • The onset of segregation in terms of sink concentration is independent of the dose and the dose-rate dependence can be attributed to the dose-rate dependence of the incubation dose. We illustrated the strong dependence of RIS on the presence of defect sinks to serve as nucleation sites for segregation and showed that clusters of radiation-induced defects can grow to sufficient sizes to serve as segregation sites. This type of behavior has been observed experimentally as clustering away from microstructural defects such as grain boundaries or free surfaces [60,61], and has also been confirmed to occur for both voids [62] and interstitial clusters [63], as observed in our simulations. Our simulations show that the introduction of extrinsic dislocations as defect sinks can serve as additional nucleation sites for RIS. • The different damage insertion techniques resulted in measurable differences in the concentrations of point defects as well as in the development of RIS. • The effect of compensating for changes in dose rate can be achieved in part by shifting the dose at which a specific RIS behavior is observed in a proxy condition to that in a targeted environment.
The methodology described here represents a preliminary step that can be used during experimental design to best reproduce RIS behaviors expected in different irradiation conditions. However, there are several opportunities for improvement within the model that would improve the accuracy of the performed simulations as well as improve the flexibility of the model. The current implementation of defect cluster migration was controlled through a flat rate term, with no consideration of the impact of cluster size or type on the rate of migration. Migration direction was also not controlled, which is less accurate for the migration of interstitial clusters, which tend to move in either 1D lines or 2D planes. This could be improved through the introduction of a diffusive model for cluster migration, or a more refined rate approach based on the results of experiments or molecular dynamics simulations. The requirement imposed on the model to maintain the number of lattice positions and atoms within the simulated volume is another limitation that could be improved through changes to the boundary conditions at the edges of the simulated volume, as well as changes to the way the dislocations were handled as defect sinks.

Credit Authorship Contribution Statement:
Daniel Vizoso: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing – original draft, Data curation, Visualization. Chaitanya Deo: Conceptualization, Methodology, Investigation, Writing – review & editing, Supervision. Rémi Dingreville: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition.

Declaration Of Competing Interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Parameters Used For The Calculation Of Onsager Coefficients:
Table A.1

L -dependence Of Ris Progression And Sink Concentration Evolution:
Figure B.1

Body:
Data will be made available on request.

Materials exposed to a radiation environment can experience the buildup of radiation damage and local chemical redistribution of its alloying elements [1–6]. These radiation-induced segregation (RIS) phenomena are very common in alloys and have pervasive effects on the degradation of materials properties including radiation-induced hardening and embrittlement, irradiation-assisted stress corrosion, irradiation creep, or void swelling [4,5,7,8]. RIS involves multiple microstructural, chemo-physical processes taking place across a wide range of time and length scales [9,10]. At the time scale of pico- to nanoseconds and the length scale of nanometers, radiation damage events evolve through stages of ballistic collisions and thermal equilibration, ultimately resulting in the formation of defects as well as some short-range atomic shuffling. Over these short time and length scales, the local atomic mixing disrupts the distribution of elements within the alloy and causes localized regions to become solute-rich or solute-poor. Over greater time and length scales, preferential diffusion of solute atoms leads to the growth of compositionally heterogeneous regions, potentially causing phase changes and the associated emergence of stress fields created through lattice mismatch at the solute aggregate/matrix interface. This diffusive process is enhanced by the diffusion of radiation-induced defects, which have a tendency to migrate towards pre-existing defect sinks such as dislocations and grain boundaries and either accumulate or annihilate at those sinks [9,11].

The onset and development of RIS can only occur when a sufficient flux of defects is sustained and defect sinks are present [12–14]. Irradiation temperature, dose, and dose rate all directly affect defect flux and have been shown to impact RIS mechanisms [11,15,16]. Increasing the temperature increases the mobility and diffusive character of point defects and segregating elements, while increasing the dose rate results in higher point-defect concentrations. For instance, Averback et al. [17] found that increasing the irradiation temperature lead to an increase in the thickness of the precipitate layer that would form in a nickel–silicon (Ni–12.7 at. % Si) sample. They also observed a temperature threshold effect, for which above 590 ∘ C the growth rate of the precipitate region ceased to depend on dose rate, while below that threshold temperature the growth rate was dose-rate dependent. Another example is from Allen et al. [18] who examined neutron-irradiated samples of stainless steels and compared them with samples irradiated with much higher dose rate with proton irradiation. They observed that, in the case of a nickel–chromium (Ni–Cr) alloy, decreasing the dose rate leads to greater RIS where Cr was depleted, and Ni enriched. However, their measurements as well as separate measurements from Rehn et al. [15] for a Ni–Si alloy indicated the opposite trend with Si enrichment being greater at higher dose rates. Rehn and coworkers also noted that the amount of RIS observed at a given dose was usually larger for irradiation conditions by light particles (such as electron or light-ion irradiation) than by heavy particles (such as heavy-ion or neutron irradiation). Similarly, Was and Allen [19] compared several experiments performed in stainless steels irradiated by protons, neutrons, and heavy ions. They also noted that the development of RIS in terms of dose dependence and segregation profile differed depending on the type of incident particle and attributed it to the efficiency of the different particle types to produce “freely migrating” defects. Despite these experimental observations and studies, the effects of irradiation conditions in terms of dose, dose rate, and the type of radiation particles on RIS mechanisms are still poorly understood.

Part of the difficulty is rooted in our ability to capture the duplicity of processes involved and the different types of radiation conditions. While atomistic simulation techniques such as molecular dynamics or kinetic Monte Carlo [20–23] provide insight into the unit atomistic mechanisms related to the formation of defects and the local atomic mixing and precipitation that occur as a consequence of isolated radiation events, these atomic models are limited in their ability to predict the evolution of these processes over mesoscopic length scales or for high radiation doses or low dose rates. As an alternative, rate theory [24–27], cluster dynamics [28–32], and phase field [9,10,33–36] are mean-field approaches that describe the spatio-temporal evolution of defect and solute concentrations over a representative volume element. Of particular interest to the present study, several phase-field models have been developed and employed to study RIS mechanisms as summarized in Table 1 . For instance, the model presented by Dubey and El-Azab [33,34] examined the radiation-induced segregation behavior of a binary alloy with a free surface as a sink. This model includes a unique consideration of interstitial dumbbells, where different field variables are used to represent different dumbbell configurations; however, this model does not include the formation and growth of defect clusters and it does not include any additional sinks beyond the free surface. The model presented by Badillo et al. [9] includes the presence of vacancy and interstitial clusters but does not allow for the presence of any additional defect sinks, such as free surfaces or dislocations. The model presented by Piochaud et al. [10] includes a calculation of diffusion parameters from accelerated kinetic Monte Carlo simulations and utilizes a variable time-step approach to accelerate the simulation. However, this model does not include the formation of defect clusters and does not include additional discrete defect sinks, such as dislocations, grain boundaries, or free surfaces. The underlying commonality between these models is that the evolution over time of the elemental species, point defect species, and any other species considered by the model are each represented by coupled partial differential equations, where interactions between the different species are described via rate terms. However, these models do not offer the ability to distinguish between different sources of irradiation (light vs. heavy ions) nor did they investigate the effect of dose rate.

The intent of this study is to fill this gap by providing a method that can be used to examine the effects of dose rate and irradiation type on radiation-induced segregation behavior in binary alloy systems. We start with a complete description of our radiation-induced segregation phase-field model in Section 2. Our model includes the formation and evolution of point defects as well as defect clusters, the presence of additional defect sinks in the form of dislocations (which also interact with the chemical potentials of the point defect species through an applied stress field), and two different methods of radiation-damage insertion, which are intended to simulate either light-ion/electron irradiation in the form of Frenkel pair insertion or heavy-ion irradiation in the form of cascade-like insertion. In Section 3, we employ this model to study the effects of dose, dose rate, particle type, and the presence of dislocations on RIS in a model binary alloy. In Section 4 we discuss how the methodology presented in this work allows for a first-order prediction of the dose rate for proxy irradiation experiments could be performed to approximate similar radiation-induced segregation seen in a targeted irradiation environment.

Our model considers a binary alloy with vacancies and self-interstitials of both alloy species as well as clusters of each point defect species. We model the evolution of the atomic, point-defect, and defect-cluster concentrations through time and space using Cahn-Hilliard-like equations. These equations have been modified to include defect/defect and defect/defect-cluster interactions. Each node within the simulation volume is assumed to represent a volume of materials of dimension L unit cells across. Therefore, each node would contain L 2 or L 3 unit cells, depending on whether the simulation is two or three dimensional, respectively. The concentration of a given atomic species within each node is thereby determined as the volume average per unit cell L of atoms or point defects within the node.

In total, we use eight microstructural fields representing: two alloy species ( X A , X B ), three point-defect species ( X V , X i A , X i B ), and three defect-cluster species ( X V C , X iC A , and X iC B ), where A and B denote alloy component A and B respectively, subscripts i and V denote interstitial and vacancy species, and subscript C denotes clusters of these species. For instance, “ X iC B ” denotes the concentration of B interstitial clusters.

The diffusive evolution of alloy species (described in the equations as α and β , each representing species A or B respectively) and point-defect concentrations (described in the equations as d , representing either vacancies or the two self-interstitial atom concentrations) are described by the overall fluxes of atoms mediated by point defects [10]: (1) d X α dt=∇ · [ ∑ d ∑ β ℓ α β d X d k B T ( ∇ μ β + sign ( d ) ∇ μ d ) ] + R Vi , α + R VC , i α + R VC , i β , (2) d X d d t=∇ · [ ∑ α ∑ β ℓ α β d X d k B T ( sign ( d ) ∇ μ β + ∇ μ d ) ] − R recomb − R d , sink . In these equations, sign ( d ) has a value of − 1 for vacancies and a value of 1 for the two interstitial species, μ β is the chemical potential of the alloy species β , μ d is the chemical potential of a point-defect species d , T is the temperature of the system in Kelvin, and k B is the Boltzmann constant. The terms R recomb , for recombination, and R d , sink , for sinks, depend on the type of point defect d and the type of microstructural sinks present in the simulation. In this model, the only defect sinks that are handled through the rate term R d , sink are defect clusters. The term ℓ α β d represents a normalized Onsager coefficient for cross-effects and is defined as (3) ℓ α β d=V at k B T X d L α β d , where V at is the atomic volume. In the simulations performed for this work, all length scales required in the computation of ℓ were normalized by the dimensions of the simulation nodes, so the V at was approximated as V at=1 / ( L d n cell ) , where n cell is number of atoms per unit cell of the material (4 for FCC materials, 2 for BCC). The expressions for L α β d can be found in the previous work by Tucker et al. [37], with parameters used in the present work listed in Appendix A. The value of ℓ used for interstitial defects is assumed to be the same between the two-point interstitial species.

For some of the equations used in this model, adjusted concentrations are used to account for the presence of defect clusters within specific nodes, which reduces the number of available sites within a given unit cell. Based on the original formulation proposed by Badillo et al. [9], the adjusted concentrations are: (4) X ˜ γ=X γ 1 − X V C − X i C A − X i C B ; for γ=A , B , V , (5) X ˜ i α=X i α 1 − X V C − X i C A − X i C B ; for α=A , B , with modifications made to allow for the rates of point defect loss at clusters of the opposite type to depend on the size of those clusters (e.g., vacancies interacting with interstitial clusters or interstitial interacting with vacancy clusters). Recombination of the point-defect species is handled via [9]: (6) ( d X ˜ i A dt ) recomb=R ˜ V , i A=− 4 π r c X ˜ V X ˜ i A [ Γ ¯ V + ν c i A exp ( − β E i A m ) ] , (7) ( d X ˜ i B dt ) recomb=R ˜ V , i B=− 4 π r c X ˜ V X ˜ i B [ Γ ¯ V + ν c i B exp ( − β E i B m ) ] , (8) ( d X ˜ V dt ) recomb=( d X ˜ i A dt ) recomb + ( d X ˜ i B dt ) recomb . Due to the modifications made to the formulation of the adjusted species concentrations in Eqs. (4) and (5), point-defect recombination can be preserved when defect clusters are present since the normalization factor is the same between vacancies and interstitials.

In the above equations, the term Γ ¯ V represents the average vacancy jump frequency for a local composition and is defined by Badillo et al. [9]: (9) Γ ¯ V=ν c X ˜ A exp ( − β E V A m ) + ν c X ˜ B exp ( − β E V B m ) . In Eqs. (6) and (7), r c refers to the recombination radius for interstitials and vacancies normalized by the length-scale of the node. The expression 4 π r c in Eqs. (6) and (7) is for three-dimensional simulations, and is replaced by the expression 2 π / [ r c 2 / 2 − ln ( r c ) − 1 / 2 ] for two-dimensional simulations. The term ν c refers to the jump attempt frequency of isolated vacancies divided by L 2 (i.e., ν L 2 ). A discussion on why the vibration frequency ν must be normalized by the dimension of the nodes can be found in Badillo et al. [9]. The terms E V A m and E V B m are the vacancy migration barriers in pure species A or B, and E i A m and E i B m are the migration barriers for interstitials of type A and type B atoms, respectively.

The evolution of the concentrations of defect clusters is described by (10) d X VC dt=R V , VC − ∑ α R i α , VC , (11) d X iC α dt=( R i α , iC A + R i α , iC B ) − R V , iC α . For all cluster types, growth of the cluster occurs via interactions with defects of the same type (i.e., vacancy absorption at a vacancy cluster) and shrinkage of the cluster occurs via absorption of the opposite defect type (i.e., vacancy absorption at an interstitial cluster). Vacancy-vacancy cluster interactions are given by, (12) R ˜ VC , V=ν c ( X ˜ A exp ( − β E V A m ) + X ˜ B exp ( − β E VB m ) ) × { X ˜ V − exp ( − β E N − 1 → N b ) 1 − X VC } . In the above equation, E N − 1 → N b is the binding energy of a single vacancy to a vacancy cluster of size N , which can be approximated by: (13) E N − 1 → N b=E V f + E 2 V b − E V f 2 σ − 1 [ N σ − ( N − 1 ) σ ] , where E V f is the vacancy formation energy, E 2 V b is the divacancy binding energy, and σ is related to the spatial dimension via the expression σ=( d − 1 ) / d where d is the dimensionality of the simulation. Eq. (12) includes both vacancy capture at vacancy clusters (represented by the first term in the curly brackets) as well as thermal emission of vacancies from vacancy clusters (represented by the second term in the curly brackets). As it is shown, Eq. (12) is in terms of the adjusted concentration of vacancies, and would need to be multiplied by 1 − X V C prior to being used in Eqs. (1), (2), and (10).

Vacancy loss at interstitial clusters is defined as: (14) R ˜ V , iC α=ν c ( X ˜ A exp ( β E V A m ) + X ˜ B exp ( β E V B m ) ) X ˜ V , while interstitial loss at vacancy clusters and interstitial clusters are described by: (15) R ˜ i α , iC α=ν c i α X ˜ i α ( 1 − X ˜ i A − X ˜ i B ) exp ( − β E i α m ) . We applied a constraint to the simulation such that vacancy clusters and interstitial clusters could not be in the same node at the same time, such that each point defect species would only have one sink loss term active at a time. Equations (14) and (15) are in terms of their adjusted point defect concentrations and would need to be multiplied by the appropriate adjustment term from Eq. (5) to be used to adjust the original concentrations.

The diffusion behaviors of the different mobile species are described by the first term on the right-hand side of Eqs. (1) and (2). The chemical potentials μ α and μ d are functions of the chemical energy of the system, which can be partitioned into a homogeneous and heterogeneous part [10]: (16) F chem ( X d , X α )=F hom chem ( X d , X α ) + F het chem ( X α ) , The expressions for F chem can be found in Eqs. (9) and (10) of Piochaud et al. [10]. The chemical potentials of the alloy and defect mixture μ can be derived from the expressions of the chemical energy (17) μ α=V at δ F chem δ X α , (18) μ d 0=V at δ F chem δ X d .

The chemical potentials defined in Eqs. (17) and (18), as well as the Onsager coefficients in Eq. (3) tend towards infinity when the species concentration approaches zero. Due to this mathematical artifact, the defect species concentrations were not allowed to fall below their thermal equilibrium concentration defined as exp ( − E d f / k b T ) , and the concentrations of the A and B species were not allowed to fall below 0.001 within any single node. Once these limits were reached, diffusion out of the node for that particular species was prevented, and rate terms that would adjust the concentration of that species were only allowed to increase the concentration.

The chemical potentials for vacancies and interstitials are modified through a coupling with the stress field in the system due to solute segregates which are considered as non-overlapping spherical misfitting inclusions with purely positive dilatational eigenstrain [27]. The expressions for the total chemical potentials of vacancies and interstitials are below: (19) μ V=μ V 0 − V m η V σ k k , (20) μ i α=μ i α 0 − V m η i α σ k k . In Eqs. (19) and (20), V m is the molar volume of the pure solid, η V and η i α are the coefficients of compositional expansion for vacancies and interstitial respectively, and σ k k is the trace of the stress tensor calculated for each node of the simulation volume.

The presence and growth of defects and atomic clusters as well as microstructural defects (i.e., dislocations or grain boundaries) induce a residual stress field by ways of an eigenstrain [27]. Here, we consider the two-way coupling between the stress and compositional fields. The total stress field within the simulated volume can be considered as the sum of an intrinsic stress and a stress associated with the elastic response and compositional eigenstrain, (21) σ i j=σ i j ( i n ) + σ ^ i j .

The second term in Eq. (21) represents the strain due to the elastic response and the compositional eigenstrain, respectively, (22) σ ^ i j=C i j k l ( ε k l ( e l ) + ε k l ( c ) ) , where C i j k l is the elastic stiffness tensor. The elastic stiffness tensor for the alloy is taken to be a combination of the elasticity tensors for phases A and B [38,39], i.e., C ijkl=h ( c ) C ijkl A + [ 1 − h ( c ) ] C ijkl B , where h ( c ) is a smooth interpolation function between the two phases and is defined to be h ( c )=c 3 ( 6 c 2 − 15 c + 10 ) and c is the species fraction of A, with c=X A / ( X A + X B ) . Note that h ′=0 for c=0 or c=1 . The compositional strain tensor is defined via Vegard’s law, (23) ɛ ( c )=( η i X i + η v X v + η X B ) [ 1 1 0 ] I , where η i , η v , and η are the coefficients of compositional expansion for interstitials, vacancies, and B species atoms, respectively, and I is the identity second-order tensor. In Eq. (23), X i represents the sum of the concentrations of both point defect species as well as their respective clusters, while X v represents the sum of the point vacancy and vacancy cluster concentrations.

The strains ε ^ i j are calculated using the nodal displacements u ^ i using the compatibility equation, (24) ε ^ i j=1 2 ( u ^ i , j + u ^ j , i ) . The elastic strain can then be calculated using the following expression, (25) ε ( e l )=ε ^ − ε ( c ) . Using Eqs. (22), (23), (24), and (25), the σ ^ i j term in (21) can be determined.

For a system which does not contain any intrinsic, pre-existing microstructural defects such as dislocations, the intrinsic stress term σ i j ( i n ) is taken as zero, and the total stress can be determined using Eq. (22). Our implementation of this phase-field model also allows for the presence of an edge dislocation as a defect sink, alongside its intrinsic stress field. The stress field for an edge dislocation centered at (0,0) [40] is classically defined as: (26) σ 11 ⊥=− D 0 b y ( 3 x 2 + y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (27) σ 22 ⊥=D 0 b y ( x 2 + − y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (28) σ 12 ⊥=D 0 b y ( x 2 − y 2 ) x 2 + y 2 , (29) D 0=μ 2 π ( 1 − ν ) , where μ is the shear modulus of the material, ν is the Poisson’s ratio, and b is the Burgers vector of the dislocation. Finally, the out-of-plane stress is calculated as: (30) σ 33=ν ( σ 11 + σ 22 ) . The total stress (with or without dislocations) contributes to the overall chemical potentials of the point defect species defined in Eqs. (19) and (20). For all simulations involving an edge dislocation, a value of 0.24855 nm was used for the Burgers vector, b . The elastic constants used in all of the simulations performed for this work were computed from the Young’s moduli and Poisson’s ratios provided in Table 2 using Hooke’s law for isotropic materials.

Migration of defect clusters is algorithmically managed through a random shuffling step. Vacancy clusters containing more than the equivalent concentration of five vacancies are considered immobile [44]. Interstitial clusters that are smaller than half the node size are allowed to migrate, as well as vacancy clusters smaller than five vacancies. For every mobile defect cluster, a random number is generated during each simulated time step and that number is compared to a threshold value that determined the migration frequency. For the simulations performed in this work, this threshold was chosen such that on average each cluster would migrate once every 100 timesteps. Mobile defect clusters are allowed to migrate to any adjacent node, as long as that motion would not lead to the concentration of that defect species to exceed one. When considering the migration of vacancy clusters, a proportionate amount of A and B species would be placed in the node originally containing the vacancy cluster, based on the original concentrations of A and B species in the target node. Defect clusters trapped at dislocations are not allowed to be displaced. If through a migration step defect clusters of opposite types ended up in the same node, the clusters are set to annihilate with each other, leaving behind the excess of the larger cluster.

If an interstitial defect cluster grows to a sufficient cluster size such that it fills an entire node (i.e., the sum of the interstitial cluster concentrations within any given node equaled or exceeded the sum of the A and B species concentrations), the excess cluster concentration is shuffled to adjacent nodes, based on the ratio of interstitial atoms of species A and B.

All defect species that are formed in or diffused to a node containing a dislocation can recombine with their opposite defect type (i.e., the total concentration of vacancy-type defects would be recombined with the total concentration of interstitial type defects). As mentioned previously in Section 2.2, point defect concentrations of zero would cause numerical instabilities due to the method of calculating the chemical potential. Therefore, the concentrations of the point-defect species at the dislocation are not allowed to fall below the previously defined thermal equilibrium concentration. This method preserves the number of lattice positions in the simulation volume, as well as the total amount of the A and B species.

For the simulations performed for this work, we chose material parameters for our model, binary alloy that are representative of a Ni–Cr alloy system [37]. All simulations were performed with a temperature of 673.15 K, chosen to represent an operating, intermediate temperature between 0.3 and 0.5 of the melting temperature of our model binary alloy. We used a 32 × 32 × 1 simulation grid with L equal to 14, a simulated time-step of one second, and an alloy concentration of 80 % species A and 20 % species B with a 5 % amplitude noise applied to the B field concentration, unless other parameters are noted separately. We performed a sensitivity study of the behavior of the model on the value of L , and observed a dependence on the value of L depending on the simulation conditions (see Appendix B). For simulations where defect clusters were unstable at all defect concentrations or simulations where the number of defect clusters did not increase during the irradiation process, no dependence on the value of L was observed. This observation is consistent with a similar analysis performed by Badillo et al. [9]. However, when new defect clusters were allowed to form during defect insertion and those defect clusters grew and were stable, a dependence on the value of L was observed. This is to be expected, as the model only considers the case where one defect cluster can exist in a node, and as the size of the node changes so does the number of defect sinks per unit volume. This dependence on the value of L is also anticipated to exist for simulations where dislocations are present, as changing the size of the simulation node would also directly change the dislocation density within the node. Plots of the evolution of the fraction of segregated solute and the sink concentration for simulations performed with cascade insertion, no dislocations, a maximum event energy T ^ of 10 keV, and a defect insertion rate of 1 dpa/month with varying L are provided in Appendix B. All other simulations parameters for these simulations match those described above. We note that the maximum size of defect clusters that can grow at a given node is also bounded by the value of L , such that depending on the parameters chosen for the simulation the sink concentration can be artificially restricted. We have chosen a value of L for our simulations where the assumption of only a single defect cluster per node is reasonable while also having large enough nodes to not impede defect cluster growth.

We solved the governing equations for this model using an explicit Euler finite difference scheme. The model is implemented in Sandia’s in-house mesoscale multiphysics phase-field simulator MEMPHIS [38,45]. All simulations discussed in this work were performed with zero-flux boundary conditions applied to the edges of the simulated volume. A complete list of all the general simulation parameters is provided below in Table 3 . For the calculation of the chemical potentials of the two elemental species as described in Eq. (17), activity coefficients were interpolated based on the local alloy concentration from the data provided in [46].

We consider two different methods of inserting radiation damage. The first and simplest of these methods is a Frenkel pair (FP) insertion, which is meant to emulate electron and light-ion irradiation conditions [10]. In this method, the vacancy-field variable within a target node is increased by the equivalent value of a single vacancy, as determined by the dimensionality of the simulation and the previously defined term L , which defines the size of each node in unit cells. Based on the local atomic composition, an interstitial atom of either type A or type B is created in either the same node as the vacancy or one of the immediately adjacent nodes.

These FP insertion events occur at a frequency determined by a target dose rate (in dpa/s). Since the simulation size, and thereby the total number of atoms within the simulation, is defined at the beginning of the simulation, the target dose rate can be achieved utilizing the following equation, (31) R FP=R target × t s × N at , where R FP is the number of FP insertion events to perform per timestep, R target is the target dose rate, t s is the duration of each timestep, and N at is the total number of atoms within the simulation volume.

The second method of radiation-damage insertion can be considered as a cascade-like insertion method, which is meant to resemble heavy-ion irradiation conditions [22,34]. This methodology uses the athermal-recombination-corrected displacement per atom (arc-dpa) and replacement per atom (rpa) standards of determining the number of defects and the size of the mixing region that forms as the result of a damage cascade being initiated by a particle with energy T [47]. This method approximates a radiation-damage cascade as a core-shell structure which is described by two different damage estimators. The first estimator is the number of displaced atoms (arc-dpa) that occurs in the shell of the approximated cascade, which is meant to capture the formation of long-range ballistic damage near the periphery of the thermal spike. The second estimator is a short-range thermal spike mixing damage (rpa) that occurs within the hot cascade core. The number of atoms involved in either the core or the shell of the approximated damage cascade initiated by a primary knock-on atom (PKA) with energy T are determined using the following equations, (32) N dpa / rpa={ 0 for T < E d 1 for E d < T < 2 E d 0.8 0.8 T 2 E d ξ dpa / rpa for 2 E d 0.8 < T < inf and, (33) ξ dpa ( T )=1 − c dpa ( 2 E d / 0.8 ) b dpa T b dpa + c dpa , (34) ξ rpa ( T )=[ b rpa c rpa ( 2 E d / 0.8 ) c rpa + 1 ] T c rpa b rpa c rpa + T c rpa , where E d is the threshold displacement energy, and b dpa , c dpa , b rpa , and c rpa are material specific constants determined from explicit PKA simulations or from experiments. Values for these constants used in simulations involving cascade-like damage insertion are provided in Table 4 [47].

In our model, N dpa vacancies are created within a randomly selected node, and N dpa interstitials are created either in the same node or any adjacent nodes. The fraction of interstitials that are of species A or B are sampled from the selected node’s concentrations of species A or B. To account for the recombination of pre-existing defects that can occur within the thermal spike of a damage cascade, the fraction of the node that is participating in the cascade is determined by dividing N rpa by the number of lattice positions per node. Then, the minimum defect fraction is determined by comparing the total vacancy concentration (i.e., the sum of the isolated vacancy concentration and the vacancy cluster concentration) in the event node to the total interstitial concentration. A random number between 0 and 1 is multiplied by the product of the minimum defect concentration and the fraction of the node that is participating in the cascade. This fraction of the minimum defect concentration is recombined with the other defect species according to the local distribution of point defects to defect clusters.

A maximum recoil energy is provided as an input into the model, and an event energy is sampled based on that maximum energy using the primary recoil spectrum calculated using the below equations [48]. (35) P ( E , T )=∫ E d T σ ( E , T ′ ) d T ′ ∫ E d T ^ σ ( E , T ′ ) d T ′ . Eq. (35) represents the fractional number of recoils between the minimum displacement energy E d and energy T , where T ^ is the maximum possible recoil energy, E is the incident ion energy, and σ ( E , T ) is the scattering cross section for heavy, slow ions with incident energy E and PKA energy T . The scattering cross-section can be approximated using the following equation, (36) σ ( E , T )=π 2 a 2 E a γ 1 / 2 8 E 1 / 2 T 3 / 2 , where a=0.8853 a 0 ( Z 1 Z 2 ) 1 / 6 ( Z 1 and Z 2 are the atomic numbers of the interacting atoms and a 0 is the Bohr radius), γ=4 M 1 M 2 ( M 1 + M 2 ) 2 ( M 1 and M 2 are the masses of the interacting atoms), and E a=13.6 ( Z 1 Z 2 ) 7 / 6 ( M 1 + M 2 ) ( M 2 ϵ ) ( ϵ is the unit charge). Eq. (36) enables us to determined the maximum energy being sampled during cascade insertion.

Determining the event rate for the cascade-like damage insertion method is slightly more complicated than determining the event rate for the FP insertion method, since the number of atoms displaced per event is not constant. For the simulations performed for this work, the event rate for cascade-like damage insertion was determined by sampling the primary recoil spectrum 100,000 times and calculating the N dpa from these sampled recoil energies. These N dpa values were averaged to determine an average number of displacements per event, which was then used to determine an event rate according to the equation, (37) R C=R target × t s × N at N dpa avg , where R C is the number of cascade-like damage insertions per timestep and N dpa avg is the average number of displacements per cascade-like damage insertion event. Defect clusters are introduced into the simulation by replacing a damage insertion event with a cluster insertion event. For both FP insertion and cascade insertion, a cluster insertion event occurs after the equivalent concentration of 4000 vacancies and interstitials have been inserted [9]. For the case of FP insertion, the cluster insertion event involved the formation of a vacancy cluster of size 4 forming in the event node, and two interstitial clusters of size 2 being formed in the nodes surrounding the event node. With cascade insertion, a vacancy cluster of size N dpa was formed in the event node and N dpa interstitials were randomly distributed to form interstitial clusters in the nodes adjacent to the event node.

Both FP and cascade-like approaches rely on the ability to adjust the defect and species concentrations in increments equivalent to one atom or defect within each node. As such, these methods cannot be used when the number of lattice positions within each node is small, as the probability that a node’s concentration for any of the elemental species or defect species falls to zero or below increases as the physical size represented by the node decreases. Given the size of our computational grid chosen for this study, we are limited in the spatial resolution that can be achieved for the stress fields induced by the presence of dislocation or grain boundaries, such as those performed in Zarnas et al. [27,49] and Moldaje et al. [36]. Indeed, the length-scale associated with the detailed stress fields is on the order of several lattice constants, below the dimension of the nodes used in the simulations for this work. Here, the stress field for pre-existing dislocations is therefore averaged over a given unit cell.

The accumulation of radiation-induced defects and the evolution of degradation mechanisms such as RIS is closely related to the irradiation conditions, including the flux of the incident particles (dose and dose rate) and particle type [15,17–19]. For example, irradiation via ion beam exposure can produce displacement rates of the order of 10 − 2 to 10 − 5 dpa/s, while exposure to neutron flux, as seen in a nuclear reactor, can produce displacement rates of the order of 10 − 7 to 10 − 12 dpa/s [44,48]. We examined the impact of dose rate on the accumulation of radiation-induced defects as well as the onset and progression of RIS in an idealized binary A-B alloy.

To study the relationship between dose rate and RIS, we performed simulations with five different dose rates: 1 dpa/day (1.1574 × 10 − 5 dpa/s), 1 dpa/week (1.6534 × 10 − 6 ), 1 dpa/month (3.858 × 10 − 7 dpa/s), 1 dpa/six months (6.43 × 10 − 8 dpa/s), and 1 dpa/year (3.171 × 10 − 8 dpa/s). The high dose rates correspond to conditions that would be seen in ion beam environments while the slowest dose rates correspond to environments seen in a nuclear reactor. Unless otherwise mentioned, we used cascade-like insertion with no dislocations present in the simulation cell. No defect clusters are present in these systems at the beginning of irradiation except for the calculations with a dislocation present in the simulation cell. As the simulation progresses and therefore dose increases, defect clusters are allowed to form and grow as a consequence of the insertion of damage events as described in Section 2.6. The nucleation and growth of these defect clusters create the necessary conditions for the development of intrinsic sinks within the simulation cell for RIS to occur.

We first look at the accumulation of point defects and defect sinks in our exemplar binary A–B alloy irradiated at three different dose rates (high, medium, and low or equivalently 1dpa/day, 1 dpa/month, and 1dpa/year) up to a final dose of 10 dpa. As shown in Fig. 1 (a)–(c), it is clear from these different defect evolution plots that the total concentration of point defects is of a lesser extent with decreasing dose rates for equivalent doses. This trend is intuitive, since the point defects that are produced in material systems irradiated at lower dose rates will allow for defects to have more time to recombine or be trapped at defect sinks, resulting in a lower point-defect concentration at an equivalent dose compared to systems irradiated at higher dose rates. Second, we note that the point-defect concentrations reach a steady-state value prior to a divergence between the interstitial and vacancy concentrations. The threshold dose at which this steady concentration is reached tends to be lower with lower dose rates and occurs within a narrow range of doses between 0.01 to 0.5 dpa. Due to differences in diffusion behavior between the point-defect species, it is expected that the concentrations of vacancies and interstitials should diverge as one of the two species will diffuse to and annihilate at defect sinks at a higher rate. In our model, defect concentrations are perfectly conserved, meaning that the number of free and trapped vacancies and interstitials must always be the same. Because of this constraint on the model, we observe that above the dose rate of 1 dpa/day, the free vacancy concentration decreases below that of the free interstitials, as a greater number of vacancies become preferentially trapped to form vacancy clusters. At the dose rate of 1 dpa/day, the free vacancy concentration is observed to be above that of the free interstitials.

This predicted behavior where the concentration of free vacancies decreases below that of the free interstitials at dose rates above 1 dpa/day in the model does deviate from the behavior described in traditional rate-equation models such as those shown in Was [48]. This is likely due to the conservatory nature of our model. In real material systems, defect sinks do not necessarily conserve the species that the model tracks. For example, defect migration to a defect sink such as a dislocation does not necessarily preserve the integrity of the defect type (i.e., vacancy loss at a dislocation does not necessarily return a trapped interstitial to a standard lattice position). Depending on the simulation parameters, the preference of the simulation to store more defects in the form of interstitial or vacancy clusters will determine which point defect has a higher concentration.

The point defect concentrations shown in Fig. 1(a)–(c) are high compared to the concentrations typically observed in experiments. This behavior is caused by the combination of several factors. The simulations are meant to recreate single crystal environments and do not include the effects of pre-existing defect sinks such as grain boundaries or free surfaces. Additionally, test simulations at various dose rates have shown that the point defect concentrations are highly dependent on the magnitude of the Onsager coefficients used in Eqs. (1) and (2). While the concentrations may be elevated with respect to experimental values, the dose-rate dependent trends observed in the evolution of the defect species and progression of segregation still hold and compare well with experimental observations.

Looking at the evolution of sink concentration as a function of dose in Fig. 1(d), it is clear that, given the lack of consistent ordering between the different dose rates and the statistical noise present, the evolution of sink concentration is insensitive to the dose rate. From Fig. 1(d) and (e) we note that the rate at which sinks accumulate within the microstructure is approximately similar regardless of the dose rate. The only difference between the different dose rates is the incubation time at which defect sinks start to appear.

Minor differences between the defect accumulation behavior of the proposed phase-field model and the behavior seen in other phase-field models [9,10] as well as the simple rate-theory model proposed by Was [48] are due to how the density of defect sinks is handled. In some phase-field [10] and rate-theory models [27,48], defect sink densities are static and cannot be changed by the annihilation of defects at those sinks. In the work by Badillo et al. [9], the defect density results were shown for simulations where pre-existing defect clusters were present at the beginning of the simulation, and the parameters were tuned such that these clusters did not change in size significantly throughout the course of the simulation. The simulations whose results are shown in Fig. 2 (a) and (b) allowed the formation of new clusters during irradiation, the migration of defect clusters depending on the size and type of the cluster, and changes in the sizes of clusters throughout the course of the simulation. This change in the effective sink density with respect to defect clusters as sinks is a more realistic but imperfect representation of how defect clusters evolve in real irradiated systems.

We now turn our attention to the RIS phenomenon in the absence of dislocations. Fig. 2(a) and (b) show the evolution of RIS in terms of the amount of solute that has been trapped at segregation sites as a function of dose and time respectively for five different dose rates. Early in the irradiation process and at low doses, we observe that the amount of solute contained in nodes fluctuates around small concentration values. This behavior is likely due to the random atomic shuffling that occur as a result of the cascade-like insertion steps and the initially low density of sinks. After a dose-rate-dependent incubation period (either in terms of dose or time), the fraction of segregated solutes steadily increases. When considering the development of RIS in terms of applied dose, as shown in Fig. 2(a), there is a consistent trend where increasing the dose rate (from dpa/year to dpa/day) results in an increase of the incubation dose and a decrease in the amount of segregated solute at any given dose past the incubation dose. These observations are consistent with experimental observations made for a variety of material systems exposed to a wide range of irradiation conditions. These experimental observations [17–19] consistently pointed out that an increase in the dose rate, while maintaining other conditions fixed, resulted in a decrease in the progression of RIS. When considering the development of RIS as a function of time in Fig. 2(b) rather than as a function of dose, RIS is observed to develop later in time as the dose rate decreases. An interesting observation from Fig. 2(a) and (b) is that at large doses, our results indicate that there is a saturation behavior with respect to the dose-rate effect on the evolution of RIS, such that further decreases in the dose rate below 1 dpa/6 months does not result in a measurable change in the evolution of RIS as a function of dose.

Fig. 3 illustrates the spatial distribution of segregated solutes for three different dose rates at doses of 1 and 10 dpa respectively. We note through these illustrations that segregated solutes are uniformly distributed throughout the microstructure regardless of the dose rate. For high dose rates, such as the 1 dpa/day, the degree of segregation that has developed at the final dose of 10 dpa is relatively low, with the solute concentration at the segregation sites having increased by only around 5 to 15% above the maximum initial solute concentration. This particular segregation behavior is likely driven by the rapid rate at which solute atoms are shuffled around due to the formation of interstitials and interstitial clusters, which at this dose rate is enough to work against diffusion to impede the development of RIS. Decreasing the dose rate to 1 dpa/month, a significant increase in RIS behavior is observed, with more segregation sites having formed and the segregation sites having higher solute concentrations (up to 20% above the maximum initial solute concentration). Going from 1 dpa/month to 1 dpa/year, we observe another increase in the number of segregation sites as well as the solute concentration at those segregation sites (up to 40% above the maximum initial solute concentration).

The amount of solute segregation in Fig. 3 seems to be confined to individual nodes, with an exponential decay in the concentration of the solute species in adjacent nodes. In all of these simulations, segregation sites also contain defect clusters serving as nucleation sites for the development of RIS. These observations align with experimental and computational observations made by Was and Allen [19], where radiation-induced segregation and depletion profiles were tightly bound to within 2nm of defect sinks.

The fraction of segregation nodes plotted as a function of dose and time in Fig. 3 further completes this picture by providing insight on the density of segregated solutes. We note that density of solute segregates increases with decreasing dose rate. In other words, the efficiency with which defect clusters act as segregation sites is dose-rate dependent, with higher dose rates resulting in less segregation for the same concentration of defect clusters. This efficiency is to be expected since lower dose rate conditions allow for solute species to migrate to defect sink for longer periods of times and concomitantly, defect sinks have more time to nucleate and grow.

By plotting the fraction of excess solute against sink concentration in Fig. 4 (a), we reveal the onset of RIS, i.e. the necessary condition for RIS to start. Indeed, we note that the onset of RIS occurs once the sink concentration within the microstructure reaches a threshold concentration which depends on the dose rate. Once this threshold concentration is attained, RIS develops with the same proportionality constant with respect to the sink concentration. For the very high dose rates (i.e., 1 dpa/week and 1 dpa/day), this proportionality constant appears to be larger than for the lower dose rates.

We can then use this threshold concentration value to identify the incubation dose at which RIS starts. We note in Fig. 4 (b) that the higher the dose rate, the higher the incubation dose for RIS. This dependence of the incubation period on dose rate has been observed experimentally [19,50,51] (see for instance Fig. 6 in [19]) indicating that our model accurately reproduces the relationship between the dose rate and the development of radiation-induced segregation.

The results in the above subsections corresponded to simulations using the cascade-like insertion method. As discussed in Section 2.6, different irradiation types generate radiation damage in different ways [19]. Irradiation by electrons and light ion tends to result in the formation of distributed Frenkel pairs, since each collision between the ballistic electron and the atoms within the material lacks the necessary energy to produce collision cascades. Conversely, irradiation by ballistic heavy ions results in the formation of collision cascades, which can produce both Frenkel pairs as well as defect clusters within individual damage events. Damage cascades also result in a greater amount of local atomic mixing than FP insertion, which can lead to redistribution of the local alloy as well as recombination of any pre-existing defects that are within the thermal spike region of the cascade.

In this section we examine the impact that different radiation damage insertion methods have on the onset and development of RIS in a binary alloy. We ran simulations utilizing the FP insertion at four different dose rates: 1 dpa/day (1.1574 × 10 − 5 dpa/s), 1 dpa/week (1.6534 × 10 − 6 ), 1 dpa/month (3.858 × 10 − 7 dpa/s), and 1 dpa/6 months (6.43 × 10 − 8 dpa/s). We compare in Fig. 5 the evolution of the concentrations of point defects as a function of dose for material systems irradiated with a dose rate of 1 dpa/month via cascade-like insertion and FP insertion. We note that the change in damage insertion type does not result in a drastic change in the evolution of the concentrations of the point defects, with the most noticeable change being a slightly lower concentration of both interstitials and vacancies in the system irradiated via cascade-like insertion.

In terms of the progression of solute segregation, we show in Fig. 6(a) the evolution of the fraction of excess solute as a function of dose when using the FP insertion method. In this figure, we observe a much faster saturation of the dose rate effect on the maximum amount of segregated solute, with all dose rates above 1 dpa/day having nearly identical behavior at doses above approximately 1 dpa. When comparing the fraction of segregated nodes between cascade insertion and FP insertion in Fig. 6(b) (in this case for a dose rate of 1 dpa/month), we note that the methods yield different RIS behavior at high doses (i.e., dose greater than 1 dpa). This difference at high dose can mostly be explained by the propensity of cascades to generate more surviving clusters and the cumulative effect of atomic mixing as the dose increases in the case of cascade-like insertion. This trend is again easily explained by the fact that the FP insertion yields a more uniform distribution of Frenkel pairs as compared to the cascade-like insertion method, which has a dose-rate dependent effect on the incubation dose. These predictions from our model are supported by experimental observations for ion-irradiated specimens made by Averback et al. [52] and Rehn et al. [15], who reported a relative low sink densities for Ni–Si samples irradiated with protons. However, for their samples irradiated with Kr, their microscopy observations indicated that irradiation-induced internal sinks do become significant. For additional comparison, the results for a cascade-insertion simulation with a much lower maximum event energy of 2 keV (like light ion or proton irradiation) are also shown in Fig. 6(b), with the results of that simulation falling below the results of the higher energy cascade insertion simulation and above the FP insertion results in an intermediate dose regime, eventually rising above the higher energy simulation at doses above approximately 5 dpa.

In Fig. 6(c), the incubation dose as a function of dose rate for FP insertion has a consistent trend of increasing with increasing dose rate. When comparing the dependence of the incubation dose on the dose rate between the two insertion methods, we note that there is a dose-rate dependent trend with a cross-over point at 1 dpa/week, above which the FP insertion technique has a higher incubation dose and below which the cascade-insertion technique has a higher incubation dose. From these observations, our model predicts that materials exposed to irradiation via heavy ion bombardment (cascade-like) will display RIS behavior at earlier times and lower doses at high dose rates, and at later times and higher doses at lower dose rates.

Through our examination of the dependence of RIS development on the dose rate as well as the type of incident particle type, we showed that in our model RIS initiates within nodes containing defect sinks. Another common type of defect sinks present within metallic systems is dislocations, which can show up in the form of an isolated line or loop and that can be organized or in random networks such as those present in grain boundaries and highly irradiated systems, respectively. To examine the effect of the presence of dislocations on RIS behavior, we performed simulations with a single edge dislocation inserted at a central node within the simulated volume and tested all previously tested dose rates.

We illustrate in Fig. 7 the distribution of solute segregates after 10 dpa for three different dose rates (1 dpa/day, 1 dpa/month, and 1 dpa/year) when a dislocation is present within the simulation cell. For these simulations, given the size of the simulation domain, the effective dislocation density is 2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 . Comparing Fig. 7 to the relevant panels in Fig. 3, we observe that the dislocation serves as a nucleation site for segregation for all tested dose rates. When solute species have time to diffuse within the simulation cell (i.e., when the dose rate is low), solute tends to accumulate near the dislocation line, beneath the glide plane of the edge dislocation. In our model, we considered solutes as non-overlapping spherical misfitting inclusions with purely positive dilatational eigenstrain (see Section 2.3). It has been shown in this case [53,54] that the equilibrium solute distribution around an infinitely long, straight edge dislocation follows a Fermi-Dirac distribution.

Comparisons between the defect concentrations found in Fig. 1 for simulations utilizing cascade-like damage insertion without the presence of dislocations with those in the simulations containing a dislocation, no immediate differences were noticeable. There are two possible reasons why the introduction of a dislocation had a minimal impact on the progression of the simulations. The first is the way the dislocation serves as a sink for defects, as described in Section 2.5, where the dislocation only serves as a site for enhanced defect recombination rather than as a true defect sink. In real systems, annihilation of defects at defect sinks such as dislocations would not necessarily conserve defect counts, which may lead to different behavior in the evolution of the concentrations of defects. The second possible cause is the low density of dislocations within the performed simulations. With the simulation volume used here, the equivalent dislocation density is only 2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 .

All of the previous simulations were performed with the same number of nodes, meaning that all simulated volumes had the same physical dimensions. For simulations performed without any extrinsic sinks, this is expected to have little to no impact on the evolution of the system under irradiation, since all of the rate terms as well as the damage insertion are scaled via the dimensions of the simulation [9]. However, once an extrinsic sink is present, the density of those applied sinks can have an impact on the evolution of the systems. Therefore, we performed simulations at a dose rate of 1 dpa/month with cascade-like damage insertion for different dimensions ( 32 × 32 , 25 × 25 , 18 × 18 ) and thereby different dislocation densities (2.67 × 10 13 m − 2 , 1.03 × 10 14 m − 2 , and 1.98 × 10 14 m − 2 ) as a way to examine the impact of dislocation density on RIS.

The bottom plot in Fig. 7 shows the evolution of excess solutes for these three dislocation densities. At low doses, the difference in the density of dislocations does result in an increase in the magnitude of excess solute with increase dislocation density. As the applied dose increases, these differences mostly disappear, with the three simulations behaving similarly throughout the rest of the irradiation process. The lack of clear correlation between the density of dislocations and the progression of RIS in the model is also likely linked to how RIS in the model is reliant on defect clusters as nucleation sites. Since the dislocations primarily enhances RIS by pinning defect clusters and enhancing defect recombination, the effect of the dislocation as a sink is confined to the node containing the dislocation. Also, due to the physical size attributed to the nodes is large, the impact of the stress field on the diffusion of point defects is also quite low compared to simulations with much smaller physical dimensions [27]. Increasing the dislocation density by introducing multiple dislocations at once or by reducing the size of the simulation node is expected to eventually impact the evolution of RIS as the impact of dislocations as defect sinks grows with respect to the impact of defect clusters as sinks. Decreasing the size of the simulation node will also change how the stress field induced by the dislocation impacts the diffusion of defects and segregation of solute near the dislocation, as the strength of the stress field described by Eqs. (26), (27), and (28) falls off significantly over a distance of several nanometers.

Several experimental and theoretical studies have investigated the temperature shift required at different dose rates to achieve equivalent radiation-induced damage or segregation in alloys [44,48,55,56]. The results presented above in Figs. 2(a) and 4(b) give us an indication of a possible equivalence of RIS behaviors between different dose rates. We define two conditions: (i) targeted dose rate irradiation conditions and (ii) proxy dose rate irradiation conditions that are required to produce similar RIS behavior as the one seen in the target conditions. Given the difference in incubation dose as a function of dose rate, we are interested in defining the required shift in dose when changing the dose rate from the target to the proxy conditions. The increase or decrease in dose (i.e., a positive or negative dose shift) is found for the two-dimensional input space of targeted and proxy dose rates using the fraction of excess solutes for both conditions as the metric for equivalent RIS behavior. Note that in order to find the dose shift required by changing the dose rate, all other variables associated with the model such as the geometry of the simulated sample and more importantly the temperature are the same for simulations at target and proxy conditions. We considered cascade-like insertion, with no dislocation present.

Fig. 8 shows maps of the dose shift found for various levels of solute segregation (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%). For example, if we want to use a proxy dose rate of 1 dpa/week (i.e.,∼1.6 × 10 − 6 dpa/s) as a way to emulate RIS behavior seen in a targeted environment where the dose rate is 1 dpa/year (i.e.,∼3.2 × 10 − 8 dpa/s), the dose at which a specific RIS behavior is observed in the proxy condition corresponds to a shifted dose that ranges from +0.364 dpa for low levels of RIS (see panel (a)) to +4.805 dpa for 20% of segregated solutes (see panel (d)) in the targeted environment. We observe that in general the larger the proxy dose rate, the larger the shift in dose to emulate equivalent RIS conditions in the targeted irradiation conditions. This is one of the reasons we have blacked out quadrants in Fig. 8. These quadrants indicate that the simulations performed were not run to sufficient damage level (the maximum dose simulated is 10 dpa for all dose rate tested) or that the proxy conditions do not allow for an equivalence with the targeted irradiation conditions.

Although this study addresses the effect of compensating for changes in dose rate by changing the dose, there are several other factors which in practice need to be considered in addition to this shift and that are not treated here. To the first order, one needs also consider a shift in temperature with using different dose rate in the proxy conditions. Past studies [44,48,55,56] have shown that using a proxy irradiation condition requires an increase in temperature to emulate lower dose rates. Obviously, increasing the temperature will result in an increase in the mobility of the atomic species at play and these effects are in turn correlated with the concept of shifting the dose presented here. It is reasonable to posit that both a shift in temperature and in dose are ultimately needed to use proxy conditions to emulate a targeted environments as far as RIS is concerned. There are also other factors that could also potentially impact how to calibrate proxy conditions. For instance, neutron irradiation of metals also creates transmutation products such as hydrogen and helium, which can significantly influence RIS by acting as traps [57–59].

In this study we examine the relationships between radiation-induced segregation and dose, dose rate, and irradiation type via phase-field simulations. These simulations account for various processes governing RIS including the formation and evolution of point defects as well as defect clusters, the diffusion and clustering of alloy species, the presence of additional defect sinks in the form of dislocations, and two different methods of radiation-damage insertion, which are intended to simulate either light-ion/electron irradiation via Frenkel pairs or heavy-ion irradiation in the form of cascades. Our simulation results are in good agreement with many experimental observations over a broad range of conditions tested. Our results show that: • Decreasing the dose rate leads to a decrease of the incubation dose and an increase in the amount of segregated solute and a higher density of solute precipitates at any given dose past the incubation dose. • The onset of segregation in terms of sink concentration is independent of the dose and the dose-rate dependence can be attributed to the dose-rate dependence of the incubation dose. We illustrated the strong dependence of RIS on the presence of defect sinks to serve as nucleation sites for segregation and showed that clusters of radiation-induced defects can grow to sufficient sizes to serve as segregation sites. This type of behavior has been observed experimentally as clustering away from microstructural defects such as grain boundaries or free surfaces [60,61], and has also been confirmed to occur for both voids [62] and interstitial clusters [63], as observed in our simulations. Our simulations show that the introduction of extrinsic dislocations as defect sinks can serve as additional nucleation sites for RIS. • The different damage insertion techniques resulted in measurable differences in the concentrations of point defects as well as in the development of RIS. • The effect of compensating for changes in dose rate can be achieved in part by shifting the dose at which a specific RIS behavior is observed in a proxy condition to that in a targeted environment.

Decreasing the dose rate leads to a decrease of the incubation dose and an increase in the amount of segregated solute and a higher density of solute precipitates at any given dose past the incubation dose.

The onset of segregation in terms of sink concentration is independent of the dose and the dose-rate dependence can be attributed to the dose-rate dependence of the incubation dose. We illustrated the strong dependence of RIS on the presence of defect sinks to serve as nucleation sites for segregation and showed that clusters of radiation-induced defects can grow to sufficient sizes to serve as segregation sites. This type of behavior has been observed experimentally as clustering away from microstructural defects such as grain boundaries or free surfaces [60,61], and has also been confirmed to occur for both voids [62] and interstitial clusters [63], as observed in our simulations. Our simulations show that the introduction of extrinsic dislocations as defect sinks can serve as additional nucleation sites for RIS.

The different damage insertion techniques resulted in measurable differences in the concentrations of point defects as well as in the development of RIS.

The effect of compensating for changes in dose rate can be achieved in part by shifting the dose at which a specific RIS behavior is observed in a proxy condition to that in a targeted environment.

The methodology described here represents a preliminary step that can be used during experimental design to best reproduce RIS behaviors expected in different irradiation conditions. However, there are several opportunities for improvement within the model that would improve the accuracy of the performed simulations as well as improve the flexibility of the model. The current implementation of defect cluster migration was controlled through a flat rate term, with no consideration of the impact of cluster size or type on the rate of migration. Migration direction was also not controlled, which is less accurate for the migration of interstitial clusters, which tend to move in either 1D lines or 2D planes. This could be improved through the introduction of a diffusive model for cluster migration, or a more refined rate approach based on the results of experiments or molecular dynamics simulations. The requirement imposed on the model to maintain the number of lattice positions and atoms within the simulated volume is another limitation that could be improved through changes to the boundary conditions at the edges of the simulated volume, as well as changes to the way the dislocations were handled as defect sinks.

Daniel Vizoso: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing – original draft, Data curation, Visualization. Chaitanya Deo: Conceptualization, Methodology, Investigation, Writing – review & editing, Supervision. Rémi Dingreville: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition.

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

R.D. is supported by the United States (U.S.) Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Basic Energy Sciences (BES), Department of Materials Science and Engineering. D.V. and C.D. are supported through the Sandia Academic Alliance (SAA) Program. The phase-field framework is supported by the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies, an Office of Science user facility operated for the U.S. Department of Energy. Sandia National Laboratories is a multi-mission laboratory managed and operated by National Technology and Engineering Solutions of Sandia, LLC., a wholly owned subsidiary of Honeywell International, Inc., for the U.S. Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration under contract DE-NA0003525. This paper describes objective technical results and analysis. Any subjective views or opinions that might be expressed in the paper do not necessarily represent the views of the U.S. Department of Energy or the United States Government.

Table A.1

Figure B.1