Title:
Evaluation of Ni and Ti-doped Y

Abstract:
The compatibility of nickel and Ti-doped 8 mol% Y2O3 stabilized ZrO2 (Ni–Ti–YSZ) cermets has been discussed for use as an anode in high-temperature solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC). The solubility limit of TiO2 in the YSZ fluorite was estimated to be at least 10 mol%. With increasing Ti content in the Ti–YSZ samples, the average linear thermal expansion coefficient was found to decrease when measured in an H2 atmosphere. In an H2 atmosphere, the oxygen vacancy concentration was observed to increase with increasing Ti content and temperature, and its value in the 8 mol% Ti-doped YSZ (8Ti–YSZ) sample was 0.0056 at 1000 °C. Although electronic conduction appeared in the Ti–YSZ samples at temperatures greater than∼600 °C in the H2 atmosphere, their electrical conductivities had a tendency to decrease with increasing Ti content. The mechanical strength of the Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets at room temperature were found to increase with increasing Ti content. Anodic polarization of the 40 vol.% Ni–8Ti–YSZ cermet at 1000 °C was 60 mV at 300 mA cm−2 in the H2 atmosphere after firing at 1400 °C for 10 h.

Keywords:
YSZ
Cermet
ZrO2

Pacs:
Fuel cells (energy conversion), 84.60.D
Electrical conductivity, mixed conductivity, 72.60
Mechanical testing, 81.70.B
Thermal expansion, 65.70
Raman spectroscopy, chemical analysis, 82.80.C

Introduction:
Because of the availability of high quality by-product heat, solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) power generation systems, with a high operating temperature of approximately 1000 °C, are expected to be the most attractive fuel cells from the viewpoint of energy conversion efficiency. The system energy calculation indicates that a total energy conversion efficiency of over 70% is attainable in the SOFC generation plant coupled with a steam turbine.
Nickel and 8 mol% Y2O3 stabilized ZrO2 (Ni–YSZ) cermet, composed of 40 volume percent (vol.%) Ni and 60 vol.% YSZ, has been the most widely used anode material in the SOFC using a YSZ electrolyte [1,2]. The YSZ component in the Ni–YSZ cermet plays the role of matching the thermal expansion coefficient of the anode with that of the other cell components [3], inhibits coarsening of the metallic Ni particles by sintering under the operating conditions [4], and increases the active reaction area of the anode [2]. Ni-metal in the cermet works as an electric current collector, and acts as a catalyst for the oxidation of H2, and for the steam reforming of methane.
Studies on anode materials have focused on lowering the anodic polarization [2], clarifying the anode reaction mechanism of H2, CO and CH4 [5,6], and improving their long-term stability [7,8]. Recently, an interesting result using an YSZ-supported Ni–YSZ anode was reported by Itoh et al. [4]. Two kinds of YSZ particle sizes in this unique YSZ-supported anode are required to achieve a high anodic performance; the coarse YSZ particles (average particle size, 27 μm) in the cermet anode can inhibit agglomeration of Ni particles by sintering at the high operating temperature. However, a large volume of the coarse YSZ particles in the anode causes physically weak contact between the particles, and between the anode and YSZ electrolyte layers. Thus, the fine YSZ particles (average particle size, 0.6 μm) play a very important role in improving their physical contact. On the other hand, the sintering characteristics of Ni particles in the anode, namely agglomeration of the Ni particles, have a tendency to increase with increasing the fine YSZ content. Since there is a significant limitation of the fine YSZ addition, optimization of the ratio of the coarse to the fine YSZ particles is quite important in obtaining an Ni–YSZ cermet anode with a high performance.
Generally, a composite, which is a mixture of NiO and YSZ, is used as a starting material of the anode. Although the NiO–YSZ composites can be fired on the YSZ sheet at high temperatures ≥1400 °C to improve the physical contact between the coarse YSZ particles, and between the anode and YSZ electrolyte layers, the high-temperature heat treatment definitely provides some following disadvantages: (1) because the YSZ electrolyte sheet shows superplastic deformation at high temperatures of approximately 1450 °C [9], there is difficulty in controlling the dimensional tolerance for the YSZ electrolyte sheet when the NiO–YSZ composite powder is fired on; and (2) because a small amount of the NiO component goes into the YSZ electrolyte at high temperature [10], there is a possibility that the mechanical strength of the electrolyte becomes weaker when the electrolyte is exposed to the reducing atmosphere. It is, therefore, desirable to lower the firing temperature of the composite material onto the YSZ electrolyte.
Quite recently, there has been growing interest in anode substrate-supported-type SOFCs with excellent single cell performance; Itoh [11] has reported a power density at an operating temperature of 1000 °C to be 1.35 W cm−2 (at 0.60 V and 2.25 A cm−2) using a supported-type single cell with 3.1 cm2 electrode area. In the case of the anode-supported cell, where the anode substrate provides the mechanical strength of the stack, strength is very important. Thus, it is desirable to form a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode. However, there is little fundamental data on the mechanical strength of these systems, which is in contrast to the vast amount of data available on their electrochemical properties [12–14].
In order to solve the problems above, sintering aids for the anode materials, which do not degrade the electrode performance, are thus quite attractive. TiO2 addition is effective in sintering YSZ [15], and TiO2-doped YSZ (Ti–YSZ), and is known to be a mixed conductor at low partial pressures of oxygen and improve at high temperatures ≥800 °C [16–19]. Therefore, TiO2 addition is expected to not only improve the anode performance, but also lower the firing temperature. The present study was conducted to examine crystallographic, electrical, thermal and mechanical properties of Ti–YSZ fluorites and Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets for use as an anode in the SOFC.

Experimental:
2.1 Sample preparation Ti–YSZ powders were synthesized in air by a standard solid-state reaction technique. TiO2 (99.9%, High Purity Chem., Japan) and YSZ (8 mol% Y2O3 stabilized ZrO2, >99.9%, Tosoh, Japan) were used as raw materials. The powders were weighed in the desired proportions, and mixed with ethanol in a planetary-type ball mill for 10 min, where the ball and container materials were Y2O3 partially stabilized ZrO2. After drying, the mixtures were calcined at 1100 °C for 5 h, at a heating/cooling rate of 200 °C h−1. The milling and heating procedures were repeated three times. The powders were fabricated into tablets at 100 MPa in an iso-press, and sintered at 1500 °C for 72 h. In this paper, the symbol xTi–YSZ corresponds to YSZ with x mol% TiO2. NiO–Ti–YSZ composites were similarly prepared. NiO (>99%, Nacalai tesque, Japan) and the Ti–YSZ powders were thoroughly mixed with ethanol in the ball mill for 15 min. To obtain dense tablets with relative densities ≥95%, the powders were pressed and sintered at 1500 °C for 10 h in air. Theoretical density was determined from the experimental lattice parameters and unit formula. Density was determined from observed values of size and weight of the sintered tablet. Relative density was derived using the theoretical value. Theoretical densities used were 6.96 g cm−3 for NiO and 8.90 g cm−3 for Ni. In this paper, the D T and D R stand for the theoretical and relative densities, respectively.
2.2 Sample identification All the samples were analyzed using powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) (18 kW, Mac Science, M18XHF22) with monochromated CuKα radiation and a scintillation detector. A scanning rate of 0.02° s−1 was employed. Microanalysis of the specimens was carried out using a Hitachi S4000 scanning electron microscope (SEM). Raman spectroscopy was performed on samples of powders using a Jobin Yvon U1000 double beam pass spectrometer equipped with a microscope stage for analyzing small samples utilizing 180° incident geometry. A Spectra Physics argon-ion laser was employed to excite laser Raman Spectra using a 514 nm laser line at an incident power of ca. 10 mW, and a water-cooled photomultiplier tube. Spectra were obtained using 500 μm slit width and scanning rate used to collect the spectra was kept at 0.5 cm−1 s−1.
2.3 Mechanical property After reducing the specimens at 900 °C for 1 h in an H2 atmosphere, bending strength measurements were performed using a three-point bending apparatus at room temperature, 500 and 800 °C. The dimensions of the sintered specimens were approximately 2×2×15 mm length. The span length was 10 mm and the ramp speed was 3.0 mm min−1. For measurements at high temperatures, 500 and 800 °C, the sample was heated at a rate of 5 °C min−1 and held for 10 min before measuring. For measurements made at 800 °C, flowing Ar gas (>99.999%) was used. All the samples were polished and shamfered on all sides to a 1 μm polish.
2.4 Thermal properties Thermogravimetry (TG) measurements were carried out using a Mac Science TG–DTA 5000S equipment at a temperature range from room temperature to 1400 °C under an H2 atmosphere and at a heating rate of 10 °C min−1. Al2O3 powder was used as the reference material. Thermal expansion behavior was measured using a Mac Science TD5000S apparatus. Samples were cut into a rectangular shape of 2×2×20 mm length. References used for the present measurement were a rod of fused silica in air, and sapphire in the H2 atmosphere. Measurements were performed at a heating/cooling rate of 2 °C min−1. The average linear thermal expansion coefficient (TEC) was calculated in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C. Although not strictly accurate, the TECs of the fluorite materials in this study are calculated by the following Eq. (1): (1) α=(1/L1)(L2−L1)/(T2−T1) where α is the TEC, T 1 is the starting temperature, T 2 is the terminal temperature of the experiment, L 1 and L 2 are initial and final gauge lengths, respectively. We have confirmed that this dilatometer has an experimental error of±0.06×10−6 °C−1 for the measurements made in air and±0.1×10−6 °C−1 for the measurements made in H2. A flow rate of 50 ml min−1 H2 gas was used in the thermal property measurements after the gas had been bubbled through pure water at 10 °C. The partial pressure of oxygen observed at 1000 °C was almost the same as that calculated (3.6×10−19 atm for the calculated value vs. 4.2×10−19 atm for the observed value).
2.5 Electrical properties A dc four-terminal method, using Pt wires, was used to measure the electrical conductivity of the sintered samples. Measurements in air and H2 atmosphere were performed stepwise between 500 and 1000 °C.
2.6 Anode performance The single cells for measuring anode polarization were prepared in air as follows: the 52.0 vol.% NiO–YSZ and 52.4 vol.% NiO–8Ti–YSZ (40 vol.% Ni–YSZ and 40 vol.% Ni–8Ti–YSZ) anode powders were coated onto one side of the YSZ electrolyte sheet using a slurry coating technique and then fired at 1400 °C for 10 h. After the cathode, (La0.8Sr0.2)0.95MnO3, was coated onto the other side, the whole was fired at 1200 °C for 4 h. The diameter of the effective electrode was approximately 2 cm. The heating and cooling rate in air, during all the fabrication processes, was 200 °C h−1. Anode polarization at 1000 °C was made in air and the H2 atmosphere on the single cell using the current interruption technique, after passing sufficient electrical current; only the anode was sealed with a Pyrex glass O-ring, and Pt-meshes were used as electrical collectors. The single cell was heated to 1000 °C at a rate of 200 °C h−1, while air was flowing on the cathode side and N2 gas was flowing on the anode side. A flow rate of 0.7 l min−1 of H2 gas or 1.0 l min−1 of air and H2 gas bubbled through pure water at 20 °C were used when the anodic polarization measurements were carried out. The oxygen partial pressure at 1000 °C was calculated to be approximately 2.6×10−18 atm.

Sample Preparation:
Ti–YSZ powders were synthesized in air by a standard solid-state reaction technique. TiO2 (99.9%, High Purity Chem., Japan) and YSZ (8 mol% Y2O3 stabilized ZrO2, >99.9%, Tosoh, Japan) were used as raw materials. The powders were weighed in the desired proportions, and mixed with ethanol in a planetary-type ball mill for 10 min, where the ball and container materials were Y2O3 partially stabilized ZrO2. After drying, the mixtures were calcined at 1100 °C for 5 h, at a heating/cooling rate of 200 °C h−1. The milling and heating procedures were repeated three times. The powders were fabricated into tablets at 100 MPa in an iso-press, and sintered at 1500 °C for 72 h. In this paper, the symbol xTi–YSZ corresponds to YSZ with x mol% TiO2.
NiO–Ti–YSZ composites were similarly prepared. NiO (>99%, Nacalai tesque, Japan) and the Ti–YSZ powders were thoroughly mixed with ethanol in the ball mill for 15 min. To obtain dense tablets with relative densities ≥95%, the powders were pressed and sintered at 1500 °C for 10 h in air. Theoretical density was determined from the experimental lattice parameters and unit formula. Density was determined from observed values of size and weight of the sintered tablet. Relative density was derived using the theoretical value. Theoretical densities used were 6.96 g cm−3 for NiO and 8.90 g cm−3 for Ni. In this paper, the D T and D R stand for the theoretical and relative densities, respectively.

Sample Identification:
All the samples were analyzed using powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) (18 kW, Mac Science, M18XHF22) with monochromated CuKα radiation and a scintillation detector. A scanning rate of 0.02° s−1 was employed. Microanalysis of the specimens was carried out using a Hitachi S4000 scanning electron microscope (SEM).
Raman spectroscopy was performed on samples of powders using a Jobin Yvon U1000 double beam pass spectrometer equipped with a microscope stage for analyzing small samples utilizing 180° incident geometry. A Spectra Physics argon-ion laser was employed to excite laser Raman Spectra using a 514 nm laser line at an incident power of ca. 10 mW, and a water-cooled photomultiplier tube. Spectra were obtained using 500 μm slit width and scanning rate used to collect the spectra was kept at 0.5 cm−1 s−1.

Mechanical Property:
After reducing the specimens at 900 °C for 1 h in an H2 atmosphere, bending strength measurements were performed using a three-point bending apparatus at room temperature, 500 and 800 °C. The dimensions of the sintered specimens were approximately 2×2×15 mm length. The span length was 10 mm and the ramp speed was 3.0 mm min−1. For measurements at high temperatures, 500 and 800 °C, the sample was heated at a rate of 5 °C min−1 and held for 10 min before measuring. For measurements made at 800 °C, flowing Ar gas (>99.999%) was used. All the samples were polished and shamfered on all sides to a 1 μm polish.

Thermal Properties:
Thermogravimetry (TG) measurements were carried out using a Mac Science TG–DTA 5000S equipment at a temperature range from room temperature to 1400 °C under an H2 atmosphere and at a heating rate of 10 °C min−1. Al2O3 powder was used as the reference material.
Thermal expansion behavior was measured using a Mac Science TD5000S apparatus. Samples were cut into a rectangular shape of 2×2×20 mm length. References used for the present measurement were a rod of fused silica in air, and sapphire in the H2 atmosphere. Measurements were performed at a heating/cooling rate of 2 °C min−1. The average linear thermal expansion coefficient (TEC) was calculated in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C. Although not strictly accurate, the TECs of the fluorite materials in this study are calculated by the following Eq. (1): (1) α=(1/L1)(L2−L1)/(T2−T1) where α is the TEC, T 1 is the starting temperature, T 2 is the terminal temperature of the experiment, L 1 and L 2 are initial and final gauge lengths, respectively. We have confirmed that this dilatometer has an experimental error of±0.06×10−6 °C−1 for the measurements made in air and±0.1×10−6 °C−1 for the measurements made in H2.
A flow rate of 50 ml min−1 H2 gas was used in the thermal property measurements after the gas had been bubbled through pure water at 10 °C. The partial pressure of oxygen observed at 1000 °C was almost the same as that calculated (3.6×10−19 atm for the calculated value vs. 4.2×10−19 atm for the observed value).

Electrical Properties:
A dc four-terminal method, using Pt wires, was used to measure the electrical conductivity of the sintered samples. Measurements in air and H2 atmosphere were performed stepwise between 500 and 1000 °C.

Anode Performance:
The single cells for measuring anode polarization were prepared in air as follows: the 52.0 vol.% NiO–YSZ and 52.4 vol.% NiO–8Ti–YSZ (40 vol.% Ni–YSZ and 40 vol.% Ni–8Ti–YSZ) anode powders were coated onto one side of the YSZ electrolyte sheet using a slurry coating technique and then fired at 1400 °C for 10 h. After the cathode, (La0.8Sr0.2)0.95MnO3, was coated onto the other side, the whole was fired at 1200 °C for 4 h. The diameter of the effective electrode was approximately 2 cm. The heating and cooling rate in air, during all the fabrication processes, was 200 °C h−1.
Anode polarization at 1000 °C was made in air and the H2 atmosphere on the single cell using the current interruption technique, after passing sufficient electrical current; only the anode was sealed with a Pyrex glass O-ring, and Pt-meshes were used as electrical collectors. The single cell was heated to 1000 °C at a rate of 200 °C h−1, while air was flowing on the cathode side and N2 gas was flowing on the anode side. A flow rate of 0.7 l min−1 of H2 gas or 1.0 l min−1 of air and H2 gas bubbled through pure water at 20 °C were used when the anodic polarization measurements were carried out. The oxygen partial pressure at 1000 °C was calculated to be approximately 2.6×10−18 atm.

Results And Discussion:
3.1 Sample condition of Ti–YSZ The lattice parameters, cell volumes and theoretical densities of the xTi–YSZ fluorites after heating at 1600 °C for 72 h in air are summarized in Table 1 . The crystal structure is known to be rutile with tetragonal symmetry (space group P42/mnm) for the TiO2 [20], and fluorite with cubic symmetry (space group Fm3m) for the YSZ [21]. XRD patterns of the Ti–YSZ system clarified that all peaks observed were ascribed to lines associated with the cubic fluorite structure. The lattice parameter of the YSZ was 5.1439 (3) Å and Z=4 in this study and agreed with that observed by McCarthy [21]. The lattice parameters of the Ti–YSZ fluorites had a tendency to decrease with increasing TiO2 content up to 10 mol% TiO2. The decrease in the lattice parameters and cell volumes is explained by the fact that the Ti4+ ion radius (88 pm) is smaller than that of the Zr4+ ions (98 pm) with the octagonal coordination of oxygen [22]. Since no second phase peaks were observed in the xTi–YSZ samples with x≤10 mol% TiO2, the solubility limit of Ti4+ in YSZ was thus estimated to be at least 10 mol% TiO2.
3.2 Analysis of Ti-doped YSZ by Raman spectroscopy Traqueia et al. [23] have reported that the XRD patterns of the 10Ti–YSZ sample shows the presence of a tetragonal phase, and the 20Ti–YSZ sample shows the titanate phase (usually identified as ZrTiO4). The Ti–YSZ samples prepared in this work were fired at 1600 °C for 72 h compared to 1500 °C for 4 h used by Traqueia et al. [23] and this different fabrication temperature and time may attribute to the difference in phase composition. Although it is considered not to be an easy task to distinguish between the cubic and tetragonal fluorites from the XRD data, Raman spectroscopy provides a useful tool for the structural characterization of oxide materials. Several workers have studied the Raman spectra of the TiO2–ZrO2 system [24–26]. Azough et al. [24] observed Raman spectra for the compounds ZrTiO4 and Zr5Ti7O24 which were prepared from the mixed oxide route sintered at 1400 °C. Daturi et al. [25] obtained both XRD and Raman spectral data for the TiO2–ZrO2 system and found that, depending on the composition and the firing temperature, the phases of amorphous, tetragonal and monoclinic zirconia, ZrTiO4 and anatase, rutile and brookite TiO2 were observed. Few workers [23] have studied the Raman spectra of the TiO2–YSZ system for the xTi–YSZ solid solution range x=0–20. The Raman spectrum of YSZ showed the cubic-zirconia system, with a predominant band at ca. 610 cm−1 [27,28]. In the fluorite structure, a single vibration of symmetry F2g is Raman active as shown in Table 2 . However, the lack of long range order in the anion sublattice due to oxygen vacancies breaks the selection rules giving rise to several weaker features in the range from 0 to 800 cm−1 [26]. For the TiO2–YSZ solid solutions, bands at 149, 261, 322, 462, 630 and 720 cm−1 were observed and these were not attributable to rutile or anatase TiO2. These bands were assigned to the tetragonal phase of ZrO2 except for the band at 720 cm−1. For xTi–YSZ (x<10), the spectra were assigned by Traqueia et al. [23] to be the sum of cubic and tetragonal zirconia, and for 10Ti–YSZ and 20Ti–YSZ the presence of ZrTiO4 was observed in the Raman spectrum together with tetragonal and cubic zirconia. The number and type of Raman active modes for the base oxides of ZrO2, TiO2 and YSZ are shown in Table 3 . It can be seen that distinctive Raman band positions exist for the different phases of titania and zirconia, dependant upon the symmetry of the phase. Fig. 1 shows the Raman spectra obtained for the xTi–YSZ system, where (a) x=0, (b) x=2, (c) x=4, (d) x=6, (e) x=8, and (f) x=10. It can be seen that there is a shift in the Raman profile with increasing Ti content, namely the increase in intensity of bands at 152, 278, and 724 cm−1. The band positions and phase assignments for these spectra are given in Table 2. The assignment of the phases present was made with reference to the literature, band positions shown in Table 3. These new bands cannot be attributed to either anatase, rutile or brookite titania. The cubic YSZ phase is predominant through the composition range, with traces of tetragonal zirconia observed at x>2. At x>8, the presence of the phase ZrTiO4 was observed by subtraction of the spectra for YSZ from the sample spectrum, as shown in Fig. 2 . The Raman results obtained here are, in general, consistent with the work of Traqueia et al. [23]. However, the tetragonal zirconia phase was only observed as a small component, in particular at x=10, with the cubic zirconia phase predominating. The different sample preparation condition may attribute to the difference in phase composition.
3.3 Sample condition of NiO–Ti–YSZ and Ni–Ti–YSZ To understand the effect of Ti-doping in the Ni–YSZ cermet, on the mechanical strength and anode polarization, the solid-state reaction between NiO and TiO2, during the fabrication process of the NiO–xTi–YSZ samples, is quite important. In the NiO–TiO2 system, NiTiO3, with the ilmenite structure, and no solid solution for the NiO and TiO2 has been reported [33]. For the reaction between YSZ and NiO, Yamamoto et al. [10] reported that the solubility limit of NiO in YSZ was ≤2 mol% after heating at 1400 °C for 12 h in air. Kuzjukevics and Linderoth [34] also obtained similar results at 1600 °C for 80 h. In this study, it was experimentally confirmed by the XRD measurements that the mixture of Ti–YSZ and NiO showed no reaction products after heating at 1500 °C for 10 h. Additionally, it was observed that the solubility limit of NiO in Ti–YSZ was ≤2 mol%. These results are very similar to those in the NiO–YSZ system. The theoretical and relative densities of the 52 vol.% NiO–xTi–YSZ and 40 vol.% Ni–xTi–YSZ specimens are shown in Tables 4 and 5 . Although a slight difference is seen on the relative density, it is negligible for the mechanical strength and anode polarization measurements.
3.4 Mechanical strength Fig. 3 shows the average three-point bending strengths of the 40 vol.% Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets as a function of temperature with a parameter of Ti content. Fig. 4a–c show the three-point bending strength of the cermets at room temperature, 500 and 800 °C, as a function of Ti content. The broken lines in Fig. 4 represents the average mechanical strength calculated from five independent measurements. The average strength at room temperature was 99.3±13.0, 171.40±79.1 and 206.3±47.7 MPa for the YSZ, 4Ti–YSZ and 8Ti–YSZ cermets, respectively. The mechanical strength of the Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets at room temperature showed a tendency to increase with increasing Ti content. In general, the mechanical strength of ceramics decreases with increasing temperature, because the elastic modulus of ceramics decreases with increasing temperature [35,36]. Therefore, it could be postulated that the mechanical strength of cermets would decrease with increasing temperature. It is seen in these figures that the bending strength of the Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets at 500 and 800 °C decreased drastically. Although the mechanical strength of the Ti–YSZ at room temperature improved with Ti-doping, the enhancement of the strength was not significant at the high temperatures. It is well known that Y2O3 partially stabilized tetragonal ZrO2 has a high bending strength at room temperature and its strength decreases with increasing temperature [37,38]. From this study and a previous observation [23], Raman spectroscopy has shown that the anion sublattice is composed of tetragonal-like and cubic-like domains in the Ti–YSZ samples. The strengthening mechanism of Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets by TiO2 could thus be explained by the stress-induced phase transformation, which goes with a volume change on conversion of the tetragonal to monoclinic phase by the induced stress. Fig. 5a,b show the SEM micrographs of the surface of the Ni–YSZ cermet specimen without TiO2 and the Ni–8Ti–YSZ cermet after grinding using #4000 grit paper. In these figures, the small particles are Ni metal, and the large ones are YSZ and 8Ti–YSZ. It can be seen from these figures that the remarkable grain growth of the Ti–YSZ particles in the cermets occurs by Ti-doping, because Ti-doping enhances the sintering characteristics of the YSZ particles [15]. This formation of a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode could be explained by the fact that the mechanical strength of the Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets increased by Ti-doping. Fig. 6a–c show the SEM micrographs of the cross sections of the cermet specimens with different Ti contents after the mechanical strength measurements were undertaken. The effect of Ti-doping on the grain growth of Ti–YSZ particles was examined. From the observation of the microstructures, as shown in Fig. 7 , the grains of the Ti–YSZ in the cermets show transgranular fracture and an undulated surface. This suggests that the connection between the YSZ and Ti–YSZ particles contributes to the mechanical strength of the cermets.
3.5 Oxygen vacancy concentration of Ti-doped YSZ in an H2 atmosphere Under the reducing atmosphere at high temperatures, Ti4+ ions in the Ti-based oxides can convert to Ti3+ ions depending on the oxygen partial pressure and temperature. This ionic valence change is charge-compensated by the release of oxygen and the formation of oxygen vacancies. Since the change in ionic valence, and the formation of oxygen vacancies strongly affect the electrical conductivity, thermal expansion behavior, and anode performance, a detailed understanding of these properties is indispensable. YSZ showed no formation of oxygen vacancies by the mechanism of oxygen release in the H2 atmosphere. On the other hand, it was observed that for TiO2, oxygen vacancies were formed which were produced at approximately 600 °C, and the observed oxygen vacancy content value in the TiO2−δ sample was δ=0.017 at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere. Fig. 8a shows the oxygen content in the Ti–YSZ fluorites in the H2 atmosphere at the selected temperatures as a function of Ti content, when the oxygen contents in the fluorites are assumed to be zero at 25 °C in the H2 atmosphere. The formation of oxygen vacancies started at around 300 °C, and the vacancy concentration gradually increased at temperatures greater than∼600 °C. In order to clarify the effect of Ti content on oxygen vacancy content, the oxygen vacancy content is plotted as a function of temperature in Fig. 8b. The broken lines represent the oxygen vacancy content in TiO2−δ at 600 and 800 °C. The oxygen vacancy of the Ti–YSZ samples increased with increasing Ti content and temperature, and the observed oxygen vacancy content value in the 8Ti–YSZ sample was 0.0056 at 1000 °C.
3.6 Electrical conductivity of Ti-doped YSZ The temperature dependence of electrical conductivity of the 8Ti–YSZ sample is shown in Fig. 9a . For ZrO2-based oxide-ion conductors, their electrical conductivities in air are entirely due to oxide ions. The electrical conductivity is represented by the function form σT∝exp (−E/k B T), where σ is the electrical conductivity, T is the absolute temperature, E is the activation energy for oxide-ion conduction, and k B is the Boltzmann constant. Linearity of the Arrhenius plots of conductivity for all the Ti–YSZ samples is shown in Fig. 9a. Because electronic conduction occurs in the Ti–YSZ fluorites due to the formation of the Ti3+ ion at high temperatures in a reducing atmosphere [16–18], the electrical conductivities in H2 were higher than those in air at temperatures ≥800 °C; the conductivity of the 8Ti–YSZ samples at 1000 °C was 0.032 S cm−1 in air and 0.041 S cm−1 in the H2 atmosphere. In Fig. 9b, the changes in the electrical conductivity, for the Ti–YSZ at 1000 °C, are shown as a function of Ti content. The electrical conductivities of the xTi–YSZ with 6≤x≤10 in the H2 atmosphere were higher than those in air at all temperatures studied. Because the Ti3+ concentration in the Ti–YSZ samples increased with increasing Ti content, the difference in the conductivity between air and H2 atmosphere measurements showed a tendency to increase with increasing Ti content. In addition, the electrical conductivities decreased with increasing Ti content. This result suggests a decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ samples as a function of Ti-doping. Since the oxide ion is transported in the fluorite structure via a hopping mechanism through the vacancy sites, a relationship between the lattice parameter and ionic radius of the cations is important for high oxide-ion conduction. From this viewpoint, the relationship between the lattice parameter, ionic radius of cations and oxide-ionic motion in the fluorite structure has been reported [39]. The value R f for oxide-ion conduction is evaluated by the following Eq. (2): (2) R f=a/( 6 )−r c where R f is the size of the cations with octagonal coordination of oxygen, R f is, in effect, the bottle-neck by which the oxide ion can go through, a is the lattice parameter and r c is the average radius of the cations. Since the calculated R f value increases with increasing Ti content, an increase in oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ fluorites is expected. However, the TiO2 concentration dependencies of electrical conductivity for the Ti–YSZ showed the reverse. Traqueia et al. [23] have reported similar results in that a significant decrease in oxide-ionic conductivity is observed for the Ti-doped YSZ with increasing Ti content. They also explained the reason for this decrease as follows: by Ti-doping, the oxygen sublattice converts from an ordered (cubic-like) region into a disordered (tetragonal) one. Since oxygen motion occurs primarily in the disordered region in the Ti–YSZ fluorites, the electrical conductivity decreases. From the Raman spectroscopy results, it is suggested that Ti-doping should give rise to an appearance of the tetragonal-like domains in the Ti–YSZ samples. Therefore, it seems that the remarkable decrease of oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ samples relates to the appearance of the tetragonal-like domains by Ti-doping.
3.7 Thermal expansion of Ti-doped YSZ The TEC of YSZ was found to be 10.3×10−6 °C−1 in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C in air or in the H2 atmosphere. It is known that the TEC of Y2O3 fully stabilized ZrO2 is constant regardless of oxygen partial pressure and Y2O3 composition, as well as showing no anomaly of thermal expansion behavior related to phase transformation [3]. On the other hand, the TEC of TiO2 was 8.9×10−6 °C−1 in air, 9.2×10−6 °C−1 during the first heating cycle and 9.6×10−6 °C−1 during the second heating cycle in the H2 atmosphere. The TiO2 specimen showed a difference between its TECs in air and the H2 atmosphere. As discussed in the previous section, the TiO2−δ powder showed no oxygen vacancies in air, and the oxygen vacancy content value of δ=0.017 at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere. The thermal expansion mechanism for TiO2 with an increase in the TEC in the reducing atmosphere could be explained by either of the two following postulations: (1) the formation of the oxygen vacancies leads to a larger thermal expansion in TiO2−δ or (2) the average radius of Ti ions in the fluorite structure increases due to a change from the Ti4+ to the Ti3+ ion. The formation of oxygen vacancies also reduces Columbic interactions between the cation and the anion; accordingly the crystal expands [40]. Although the Ti ion in the fluorite structure should have octagonal coordination of oxygen, when a comparison is made using the radius of the Ti ion with hexagonal coordination of oxygen, it is 81 pm for Ti3+ ion and 74.5 pm for Ti4+ ions [22]. The TEC of TiO2 in the H2 atmosphere, during the second heating cycle, was larger than that during the second heating cycle. The dense TiO2 specimen with relative densities ≥99% was used for the TEC measurement. The TEC difference between the measurements during the first and second heating cycles could be related to the difference in oxygen vacancy concentration by a slow release of oxygen in the densely sintered sample. The effect of oxygen vacancy formation, and dopant content, on the TEC of Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorites is rather complicated. Because the vacancies on the O-site are formed by substituting a lower valence ion, Y3+, on the Zr4+ ion site, the concentration of the vacancy is determined by the concentration of Y dopant. Generally, the oxygen vacancy formation in oxides increases their TECs. However, the TECs of Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorites decrease with increasing Y content, namely with increasing oxygen vacancies [41]. Additionally, the reverse results are observed from the viewpoint of the ionic bond strength of oxides. The TEC of oxides, in general, has a tendency to increase with increasing the ionic bond strength. Although Y-doping in ZrO2 increases the ionic bond strength of the YO bond in the fluorite structure, the TEC has a tendency to decrease with increasing Y content [41]. The cause for such TEC behavior in the Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorite system remains a matter to be discussed further. Fig. 10a,b show the TECs of the Ti–YSZ fluorites in air, and during the first heating and second heating cycle in the H2 atmosphere as a function of Ti content. A small amount of increase in the TEC in air was observed. The compositional dependency for the TEC of the Ti–YSZ fluorites shows a reverse result with the empirical rule for the ionic bond strength; the values calculated are 0.594 for TiO and 0.671 for ZrO bond [42]. The TEC increase might be explained by the appearance of the tetragonal domains in the Ti–YSZ fluorites. Tsukuma et al. [43] reported that for the yttria-doped ZrO2 fluorites, when the tetragonal phase is compared with the cubic one, it shows a larger TEC. Therefore, the TEC increase in air might relate to the appearance of tetragonal domains in the fluorites by the Ti-dopant. For the TEC measurement made in the H2 atmosphere, a small decrease in the TEC was observed. The compositional dependence of the TEC of the Ti–YSZ fluorites during the second heating cycle was similar to that of the first cycle. An increase in the average ionic radius and oxygen vacancy content in the crystal structure is effective in increasing the TEC [44]. However, the observed TEC of the Ti–YSZ tends to decrease with Ti content. Although, in this case, the oxygen vacancies are formed at temperatures ≥800 °C, their concentration is very low. Therefore, the increase in the average ionic radius of Ti ions, and oxygen vacancy content could be independent of the TEC in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C. There is, however, still room for argument about the thermal expansion mechanisms of the Ti–YSZ fluorites.
3.8 Anode polarization of Ti-doped YSZ Fig. 11 shows the anodic polarization curves of the 40 vol.% Ni–YSZ and the 40 vol.% Ni–8Ti–YSZ cermet at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere. When the Ni–TiO2-doped YSZ anode was compared with the non-TiO2-doped sample, it showed a lower anodic polarization behavior (90 mV for non-Ti-doped vs. 60 mV for Ti-doped at 300 mA cm−2). In this cermet electrode, both ionic and electronic paths are constructed through the YSZ and Ni particles, respectively, and are connected via the area where the electrochemical reaction, O2−+H2→H2O+2e−, occurs. It would have been expected that the decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity in the Ti–YSZ by Ti-doping causes a decrease in the electroactive reaction area in the anode layer. However, the reverse result is observed. It could be postulated that the improved anodic polarization is related to the either of the two following possibilities, that is, (1) the electronic conduction should appear in the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode by Ti-doping, or (2) the sintering characteristics of the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode is higher in the sample containing Ti-dopant, compared to those of the YSZ. Use of mixed conducting oxide cermet anodes results in an enlarged effective electrochemical reaction area over the whole particle surface beyond the three phase boundary area of physical contact points between the catalytic metal particles and the electrolyte [45]. Furthermore, the catalytic metal particles loaded on the oxide surface activate the anodic process at the boundary. Watanabe et al. [46] have confirmed that in SOFCs operating with H2–O2, the anodic polarization resistance, and its activation energy were greatly decreased by loading only a small amount of the catalytic metal particles onto the Sm2O3-doped ceria particles. In the case of the Ni–Ti-doped YSZ cermet, since electronic conduction appears in the Ti-doped YSZ particles, it cannot be denied that the increase in the electrochemical reaction area, on the Ti-doped YSZ particles, causes an improvement in the anodic polarization. However, it is observed that a decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity in the Ti-doped YSZ is caused by Ti-doping. The relationship between the decrease of the oxide-ion conductivity and anodic polarization remains a matter of further discussion. The sintering characteristics of the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode, however, should be related to anodic performance. Takagi et al. [47] reported a simulation for a SOFC cermet anode as follows. In the completely mixed system of Ni and YSZ particles with the same particle size, a probability that a YSZ particle physically connects with another YSZ particle would be unity, irrespective of its location in the cermet anode. Thus, the active reaction area of YSZ particles in the anode, where oxide ions continuously go from the interface of the electrolyte to the anode, decreases exponentially in the direction of the electrode thickness. However, the active reaction area in the anode exists only in the region within 10 μm from the anode/electrolyte interface. Viewed in this light, the effect of a reduction in the electrical conductivity of the Ti–YSZ samples on the anodic performance could be negligible. In addition, the Ni–Ti-doped YSZ cermet anode showed a lower anodic polarization, in spite of a reduction in the electrical conductivity. It was experimentally confirmed that when the NiO–8Ti–YSZ tablet was compared with NiO–YSZ one, a higher relative density (77% for NiO–8Ti–YSZ vs. 65% for NiO–8Ti–YSZ) after heating at 1400 °C for 10 h was observed. Since Ti-doped YSZ enhances the sintering characteristics of NiO–Ti–YSZ composites, a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode could be suggested as forming. Since oxide-ionic diffusion, among the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode, and between anode and electrode layers could be promoted, the Ni–Ti–YSZ cermet anode showed the higher anodic performance. It seems reasonable to conclude that lowering the anodic polarization contributes to the promotion of oxide-ion conduction.

Sample Condition Of Ti–ysz:
The lattice parameters, cell volumes and theoretical densities of the xTi–YSZ fluorites after heating at 1600 °C for 72 h in air are summarized in Table 1 . The crystal structure is known to be rutile with tetragonal symmetry (space group P42/mnm) for the TiO2 [20], and fluorite with cubic symmetry (space group Fm3m) for the YSZ [21]. XRD patterns of the Ti–YSZ system clarified that all peaks observed were ascribed to lines associated with the cubic fluorite structure. The lattice parameter of the YSZ was 5.1439 (3) Å and Z=4 in this study and agreed with that observed by McCarthy [21]. The lattice parameters of the Ti–YSZ fluorites had a tendency to decrease with increasing TiO2 content up to 10 mol% TiO2. The decrease in the lattice parameters and cell volumes is explained by the fact that the Ti4+ ion radius (88 pm) is smaller than that of the Zr4+ ions (98 pm) with the octagonal coordination of oxygen [22]. Since no second phase peaks were observed in the xTi–YSZ samples with x≤10 mol% TiO2, the solubility limit of Ti4+ in YSZ was thus estimated to be at least 10 mol% TiO2.

Analysis Of Ti-doped Ysz By Raman Spectroscopy:
Traqueia et al. [23] have reported that the XRD patterns of the 10Ti–YSZ sample shows the presence of a tetragonal phase, and the 20Ti–YSZ sample shows the titanate phase (usually identified as ZrTiO4). The Ti–YSZ samples prepared in this work were fired at 1600 °C for 72 h compared to 1500 °C for 4 h used by Traqueia et al. [23] and this different fabrication temperature and time may attribute to the difference in phase composition. Although it is considered not to be an easy task to distinguish between the cubic and tetragonal fluorites from the XRD data, Raman spectroscopy provides a useful tool for the structural characterization of oxide materials. Several workers have studied the Raman spectra of the TiO2–ZrO2 system [24–26]. Azough et al. [24] observed Raman spectra for the compounds ZrTiO4 and Zr5Ti7O24 which were prepared from the mixed oxide route sintered at 1400 °C. Daturi et al. [25] obtained both XRD and Raman spectral data for the TiO2–ZrO2 system and found that, depending on the composition and the firing temperature, the phases of amorphous, tetragonal and monoclinic zirconia, ZrTiO4 and anatase, rutile and brookite TiO2 were observed. Few workers [23] have studied the Raman spectra of the TiO2–YSZ system for the xTi–YSZ solid solution range x=0–20. The Raman spectrum of YSZ showed the cubic-zirconia system, with a predominant band at ca. 610 cm−1 [27,28]. In the fluorite structure, a single vibration of symmetry F2g is Raman active as shown in Table 2 . However, the lack of long range order in the anion sublattice due to oxygen vacancies breaks the selection rules giving rise to several weaker features in the range from 0 to 800 cm−1 [26]. For the TiO2–YSZ solid solutions, bands at 149, 261, 322, 462, 630 and 720 cm−1 were observed and these were not attributable to rutile or anatase TiO2. These bands were assigned to the tetragonal phase of ZrO2 except for the band at 720 cm−1. For xTi–YSZ (x<10), the spectra were assigned by Traqueia et al. [23] to be the sum of cubic and tetragonal zirconia, and for 10Ti–YSZ and 20Ti–YSZ the presence of ZrTiO4 was observed in the Raman spectrum together with tetragonal and cubic zirconia. The number and type of Raman active modes for the base oxides of ZrO2, TiO2 and YSZ are shown in Table 3 . It can be seen that distinctive Raman band positions exist for the different phases of titania and zirconia, dependant upon the symmetry of the phase.
Fig. 1 shows the Raman spectra obtained for the xTi–YSZ system, where (a) x=0, (b) x=2, (c) x=4, (d) x=6, (e) x=8, and (f) x=10. It can be seen that there is a shift in the Raman profile with increasing Ti content, namely the increase in intensity of bands at 152, 278, and 724 cm−1. The band positions and phase assignments for these spectra are given in Table 2. The assignment of the phases present was made with reference to the literature, band positions shown in Table 3. These new bands cannot be attributed to either anatase, rutile or brookite titania. The cubic YSZ phase is predominant through the composition range, with traces of tetragonal zirconia observed at x>2. At x>8, the presence of the phase ZrTiO4 was observed by subtraction of the spectra for YSZ from the sample spectrum, as shown in Fig. 2 . The Raman results obtained here are, in general, consistent with the work of Traqueia et al. [23]. However, the tetragonal zirconia phase was only observed as a small component, in particular at x=10, with the cubic zirconia phase predominating. The different sample preparation condition may attribute to the difference in phase composition.

Sample Condition Of Nio–ti–ysz And Ni–ti–ysz:
To understand the effect of Ti-doping in the Ni–YSZ cermet, on the mechanical strength and anode polarization, the solid-state reaction between NiO and TiO2, during the fabrication process of the NiO–xTi–YSZ samples, is quite important. In the NiO–TiO2 system, NiTiO3, with the ilmenite structure, and no solid solution for the NiO and TiO2 has been reported [33]. For the reaction between YSZ and NiO, Yamamoto et al. [10] reported that the solubility limit of NiO in YSZ was ≤2 mol% after heating at 1400 °C for 12 h in air. Kuzjukevics and Linderoth [34] also obtained similar results at 1600 °C for 80 h.
In this study, it was experimentally confirmed by the XRD measurements that the mixture of Ti–YSZ and NiO showed no reaction products after heating at 1500 °C for 10 h. Additionally, it was observed that the solubility limit of NiO in Ti–YSZ was ≤2 mol%. These results are very similar to those in the NiO–YSZ system. The theoretical and relative densities of the 52 vol.% NiO–xTi–YSZ and 40 vol.% Ni–xTi–YSZ specimens are shown in Tables 4 and 5 . Although a slight difference is seen on the relative density, it is negligible for the mechanical strength and anode polarization measurements.

Mechanical Strength:
Fig. 3 shows the average three-point bending strengths of the 40 vol.% Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets as a function of temperature with a parameter of Ti content. Fig. 4a–c show the three-point bending strength of the cermets at room temperature, 500 and 800 °C, as a function of Ti content. The broken lines in Fig. 4 represents the average mechanical strength calculated from five independent measurements. The average strength at room temperature was 99.3±13.0, 171.40±79.1 and 206.3±47.7 MPa for the YSZ, 4Ti–YSZ and 8Ti–YSZ cermets, respectively. The mechanical strength of the Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets at room temperature showed a tendency to increase with increasing Ti content. In general, the mechanical strength of ceramics decreases with increasing temperature, because the elastic modulus of ceramics decreases with increasing temperature [35,36]. Therefore, it could be postulated that the mechanical strength of cermets would decrease with increasing temperature. It is seen in these figures that the bending strength of the Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets at 500 and 800 °C decreased drastically. Although the mechanical strength of the Ti–YSZ at room temperature improved with Ti-doping, the enhancement of the strength was not significant at the high temperatures. It is well known that Y2O3 partially stabilized tetragonal ZrO2 has a high bending strength at room temperature and its strength decreases with increasing temperature [37,38]. From this study and a previous observation [23], Raman spectroscopy has shown that the anion sublattice is composed of tetragonal-like and cubic-like domains in the Ti–YSZ samples. The strengthening mechanism of Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets by TiO2 could thus be explained by the stress-induced phase transformation, which goes with a volume change on conversion of the tetragonal to monoclinic phase by the induced stress.
Fig. 5a,b show the SEM micrographs of the surface of the Ni–YSZ cermet specimen without TiO2 and the Ni–8Ti–YSZ cermet after grinding using #4000 grit paper. In these figures, the small particles are Ni metal, and the large ones are YSZ and 8Ti–YSZ. It can be seen from these figures that the remarkable grain growth of the Ti–YSZ particles in the cermets occurs by Ti-doping, because Ti-doping enhances the sintering characteristics of the YSZ particles [15]. This formation of a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode could be explained by the fact that the mechanical strength of the Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets increased by Ti-doping.
Fig. 6a–c show the SEM micrographs of the cross sections of the cermet specimens with different Ti contents after the mechanical strength measurements were undertaken. The effect of Ti-doping on the grain growth of Ti–YSZ particles was examined. From the observation of the microstructures, as shown in Fig. 7 , the grains of the Ti–YSZ in the cermets show transgranular fracture and an undulated surface. This suggests that the connection between the YSZ and Ti–YSZ particles contributes to the mechanical strength of the cermets.

Oxygen Vacancy Concentration Of Ti-doped Ysz In An H2 Atmosphere:
Under the reducing atmosphere at high temperatures, Ti4+ ions in the Ti-based oxides can convert to Ti3+ ions depending on the oxygen partial pressure and temperature. This ionic valence change is charge-compensated by the release of oxygen and the formation of oxygen vacancies. Since the change in ionic valence, and the formation of oxygen vacancies strongly affect the electrical conductivity, thermal expansion behavior, and anode performance, a detailed understanding of these properties is indispensable. YSZ showed no formation of oxygen vacancies by the mechanism of oxygen release in the H2 atmosphere. On the other hand, it was observed that for TiO2, oxygen vacancies were formed which were produced at approximately 600 °C, and the observed oxygen vacancy content value in the TiO2−δ sample was δ=0.017 at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere.
Fig. 8a shows the oxygen content in the Ti–YSZ fluorites in the H2 atmosphere at the selected temperatures as a function of Ti content, when the oxygen contents in the fluorites are assumed to be zero at 25 °C in the H2 atmosphere. The formation of oxygen vacancies started at around 300 °C, and the vacancy concentration gradually increased at temperatures greater than∼600 °C. In order to clarify the effect of Ti content on oxygen vacancy content, the oxygen vacancy content is plotted as a function of temperature in Fig. 8b. The broken lines represent the oxygen vacancy content in TiO2−δ at 600 and 800 °C. The oxygen vacancy of the Ti–YSZ samples increased with increasing Ti content and temperature, and the observed oxygen vacancy content value in the 8Ti–YSZ sample was 0.0056 at 1000 °C.

Electrical Conductivity Of Ti-doped Ysz:
The temperature dependence of electrical conductivity of the 8Ti–YSZ sample is shown in Fig. 9a . For ZrO2-based oxide-ion conductors, their electrical conductivities in air are entirely due to oxide ions. The electrical conductivity is represented by the function form σT∝exp (−E/k B T), where σ is the electrical conductivity, T is the absolute temperature, E is the activation energy for oxide-ion conduction, and k B is the Boltzmann constant. Linearity of the Arrhenius plots of conductivity for all the Ti–YSZ samples is shown in Fig. 9a. Because electronic conduction occurs in the Ti–YSZ fluorites due to the formation of the Ti3+ ion at high temperatures in a reducing atmosphere [16–18], the electrical conductivities in H2 were higher than those in air at temperatures ≥800 °C; the conductivity of the 8Ti–YSZ samples at 1000 °C was 0.032 S cm−1 in air and 0.041 S cm−1 in the H2 atmosphere.
In Fig. 9b, the changes in the electrical conductivity, for the Ti–YSZ at 1000 °C, are shown as a function of Ti content. The electrical conductivities of the xTi–YSZ with 6≤x≤10 in the H2 atmosphere were higher than those in air at all temperatures studied. Because the Ti3+ concentration in the Ti–YSZ samples increased with increasing Ti content, the difference in the conductivity between air and H2 atmosphere measurements showed a tendency to increase with increasing Ti content. In addition, the electrical conductivities decreased with increasing Ti content. This result suggests a decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ samples as a function of Ti-doping.
Since the oxide ion is transported in the fluorite structure via a hopping mechanism through the vacancy sites, a relationship between the lattice parameter and ionic radius of the cations is important for high oxide-ion conduction. From this viewpoint, the relationship between the lattice parameter, ionic radius of cations and oxide-ionic motion in the fluorite structure has been reported [39]. The value R f for oxide-ion conduction is evaluated by the following Eq. (2): (2) R f=a/( 6 )−r c where R f is the size of the cations with octagonal coordination of oxygen, R f is, in effect, the bottle-neck by which the oxide ion can go through, a is the lattice parameter and r c is the average radius of the cations. Since the calculated R f value increases with increasing Ti content, an increase in oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ fluorites is expected. However, the TiO2 concentration dependencies of electrical conductivity for the Ti–YSZ showed the reverse. Traqueia et al. [23] have reported similar results in that a significant decrease in oxide-ionic conductivity is observed for the Ti-doped YSZ with increasing Ti content. They also explained the reason for this decrease as follows: by Ti-doping, the oxygen sublattice converts from an ordered (cubic-like) region into a disordered (tetragonal) one. Since oxygen motion occurs primarily in the disordered region in the Ti–YSZ fluorites, the electrical conductivity decreases. From the Raman spectroscopy results, it is suggested that Ti-doping should give rise to an appearance of the tetragonal-like domains in the Ti–YSZ samples. Therefore, it seems that the remarkable decrease of oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ samples relates to the appearance of the tetragonal-like domains by Ti-doping.

Thermal Expansion Of Ti-doped Ysz:
The TEC of YSZ was found to be 10.3×10−6 °C−1 in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C in air or in the H2 atmosphere. It is known that the TEC of Y2O3 fully stabilized ZrO2 is constant regardless of oxygen partial pressure and Y2O3 composition, as well as showing no anomaly of thermal expansion behavior related to phase transformation [3]. On the other hand, the TEC of TiO2 was 8.9×10−6 °C−1 in air, 9.2×10−6 °C−1 during the first heating cycle and 9.6×10−6 °C−1 during the second heating cycle in the H2 atmosphere. The TiO2 specimen showed a difference between its TECs in air and the H2 atmosphere. As discussed in the previous section, the TiO2−δ powder showed no oxygen vacancies in air, and the oxygen vacancy content value of δ=0.017 at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere. The thermal expansion mechanism for TiO2 with an increase in the TEC in the reducing atmosphere could be explained by either of the two following postulations: (1) the formation of the oxygen vacancies leads to a larger thermal expansion in TiO2−δ or (2) the average radius of Ti ions in the fluorite structure increases due to a change from the Ti4+ to the Ti3+ ion. The formation of oxygen vacancies also reduces Columbic interactions between the cation and the anion; accordingly the crystal expands [40]. Although the Ti ion in the fluorite structure should have octagonal coordination of oxygen, when a comparison is made using the radius of the Ti ion with hexagonal coordination of oxygen, it is 81 pm for Ti3+ ion and 74.5 pm for Ti4+ ions [22]. The TEC of TiO2 in the H2 atmosphere, during the second heating cycle, was larger than that during the second heating cycle. The dense TiO2 specimen with relative densities ≥99% was used for the TEC measurement. The TEC difference between the measurements during the first and second heating cycles could be related to the difference in oxygen vacancy concentration by a slow release of oxygen in the densely sintered sample.
The effect of oxygen vacancy formation, and dopant content, on the TEC of Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorites is rather complicated. Because the vacancies on the O-site are formed by substituting a lower valence ion, Y3+, on the Zr4+ ion site, the concentration of the vacancy is determined by the concentration of Y dopant. Generally, the oxygen vacancy formation in oxides increases their TECs. However, the TECs of Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorites decrease with increasing Y content, namely with increasing oxygen vacancies [41]. Additionally, the reverse results are observed from the viewpoint of the ionic bond strength of oxides. The TEC of oxides, in general, has a tendency to increase with increasing the ionic bond strength. Although Y-doping in ZrO2 increases the ionic bond strength of the YO bond in the fluorite structure, the TEC has a tendency to decrease with increasing Y content [41]. The cause for such TEC behavior in the Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorite system remains a matter to be discussed further.
Fig. 10a,b show the TECs of the Ti–YSZ fluorites in air, and during the first heating and second heating cycle in the H2 atmosphere as a function of Ti content. A small amount of increase in the TEC in air was observed. The compositional dependency for the TEC of the Ti–YSZ fluorites shows a reverse result with the empirical rule for the ionic bond strength; the values calculated are 0.594 for TiO and 0.671 for ZrO bond [42]. The TEC increase might be explained by the appearance of the tetragonal domains in the Ti–YSZ fluorites. Tsukuma et al. [43] reported that for the yttria-doped ZrO2 fluorites, when the tetragonal phase is compared with the cubic one, it shows a larger TEC. Therefore, the TEC increase in air might relate to the appearance of tetragonal domains in the fluorites by the Ti-dopant.
For the TEC measurement made in the H2 atmosphere, a small decrease in the TEC was observed. The compositional dependence of the TEC of the Ti–YSZ fluorites during the second heating cycle was similar to that of the first cycle. An increase in the average ionic radius and oxygen vacancy content in the crystal structure is effective in increasing the TEC [44]. However, the observed TEC of the Ti–YSZ tends to decrease with Ti content. Although, in this case, the oxygen vacancies are formed at temperatures ≥800 °C, their concentration is very low. Therefore, the increase in the average ionic radius of Ti ions, and oxygen vacancy content could be independent of the TEC in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C. There is, however, still room for argument about the thermal expansion mechanisms of the Ti–YSZ fluorites.

Anode Polarization Of Ti-doped Ysz:
Fig. 11 shows the anodic polarization curves of the 40 vol.% Ni–YSZ and the 40 vol.% Ni–8Ti–YSZ cermet at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere. When the Ni–TiO2-doped YSZ anode was compared with the non-TiO2-doped sample, it showed a lower anodic polarization behavior (90 mV for non-Ti-doped vs. 60 mV for Ti-doped at 300 mA cm−2). In this cermet electrode, both ionic and electronic paths are constructed through the YSZ and Ni particles, respectively, and are connected via the area where the electrochemical reaction, O2−+H2→H2O+2e−, occurs. It would have been expected that the decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity in the Ti–YSZ by Ti-doping causes a decrease in the electroactive reaction area in the anode layer. However, the reverse result is observed. It could be postulated that the improved anodic polarization is related to the either of the two following possibilities, that is, (1) the electronic conduction should appear in the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode by Ti-doping, or (2) the sintering characteristics of the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode is higher in the sample containing Ti-dopant, compared to those of the YSZ.
Use of mixed conducting oxide cermet anodes results in an enlarged effective electrochemical reaction area over the whole particle surface beyond the three phase boundary area of physical contact points between the catalytic metal particles and the electrolyte [45]. Furthermore, the catalytic metal particles loaded on the oxide surface activate the anodic process at the boundary. Watanabe et al. [46] have confirmed that in SOFCs operating with H2–O2, the anodic polarization resistance, and its activation energy were greatly decreased by loading only a small amount of the catalytic metal particles onto the Sm2O3-doped ceria particles. In the case of the Ni–Ti-doped YSZ cermet, since electronic conduction appears in the Ti-doped YSZ particles, it cannot be denied that the increase in the electrochemical reaction area, on the Ti-doped YSZ particles, causes an improvement in the anodic polarization. However, it is observed that a decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity in the Ti-doped YSZ is caused by Ti-doping. The relationship between the decrease of the oxide-ion conductivity and anodic polarization remains a matter of further discussion.
The sintering characteristics of the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode, however, should be related to anodic performance. Takagi et al. [47] reported a simulation for a SOFC cermet anode as follows. In the completely mixed system of Ni and YSZ particles with the same particle size, a probability that a YSZ particle physically connects with another YSZ particle would be unity, irrespective of its location in the cermet anode. Thus, the active reaction area of YSZ particles in the anode, where oxide ions continuously go from the interface of the electrolyte to the anode, decreases exponentially in the direction of the electrode thickness. However, the active reaction area in the anode exists only in the region within 10 μm from the anode/electrolyte interface. Viewed in this light, the effect of a reduction in the electrical conductivity of the Ti–YSZ samples on the anodic performance could be negligible. In addition, the Ni–Ti-doped YSZ cermet anode showed a lower anodic polarization, in spite of a reduction in the electrical conductivity. It was experimentally confirmed that when the NiO–8Ti–YSZ tablet was compared with NiO–YSZ one, a higher relative density (77% for NiO–8Ti–YSZ vs. 65% for NiO–8Ti–YSZ) after heating at 1400 °C for 10 h was observed. Since Ti-doped YSZ enhances the sintering characteristics of NiO–Ti–YSZ composites, a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode could be suggested as forming. Since oxide-ionic diffusion, among the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode, and between anode and electrode layers could be promoted, the Ni–Ti–YSZ cermet anode showed the higher anodic performance. It seems reasonable to conclude that lowering the anodic polarization contributes to the promotion of oxide-ion conduction.

Conclusion:
The crystallographic, mechanical, electrical, thermal and electrochemical properties of Ti-doped YSZ and its cermets have been examined as potential anode materials in the high-temperature SOFC. It seems reasonable to conclude that Ti-doping in YSZ appears to cause tetragonal domains in the cubic phase. The Ti-doped YSZ has a higher bending strength at room temperature. A small decrease in the TEC of the Ti–YSZ was observed. The electrical conductivities decreased with increasing Ti content. Although a 50% decrease in the electrical conductivity was exhibited by 8 mol% doping, the anodic polarization decreased from 90 to 60 mV at 300 mA cm−2. Thus, the Ti-doped YSZ cermets are a useful material for the anode, which can be used especially as the anode-supported type cell, where the anode substrate provides the mechanical strength of the stack.

Body:
Because of the availability of high quality by-product heat, solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) power generation systems, with a high operating temperature of approximately 1000 °C, are expected to be the most attractive fuel cells from the viewpoint of energy conversion efficiency. The system energy calculation indicates that a total energy conversion efficiency of over 70% is attainable in the SOFC generation plant coupled with a steam turbine.

Nickel and 8 mol% Y2O3 stabilized ZrO2 (Ni–YSZ) cermet, composed of 40 volume percent (vol.%) Ni and 60 vol.% YSZ, has been the most widely used anode material in the SOFC using a YSZ electrolyte [1,2]. The YSZ component in the Ni–YSZ cermet plays the role of matching the thermal expansion coefficient of the anode with that of the other cell components [3], inhibits coarsening of the metallic Ni particles by sintering under the operating conditions [4], and increases the active reaction area of the anode [2]. Ni-metal in the cermet works as an electric current collector, and acts as a catalyst for the oxidation of H2, and for the steam reforming of methane.

Studies on anode materials have focused on lowering the anodic polarization [2], clarifying the anode reaction mechanism of H2, CO and CH4 [5,6], and improving their long-term stability [7,8]. Recently, an interesting result using an YSZ-supported Ni–YSZ anode was reported by Itoh et al. [4]. Two kinds of YSZ particle sizes in this unique YSZ-supported anode are required to achieve a high anodic performance; the coarse YSZ particles (average particle size, 27 μm) in the cermet anode can inhibit agglomeration of Ni particles by sintering at the high operating temperature. However, a large volume of the coarse YSZ particles in the anode causes physically weak contact between the particles, and between the anode and YSZ electrolyte layers. Thus, the fine YSZ particles (average particle size, 0.6 μm) play a very important role in improving their physical contact. On the other hand, the sintering characteristics of Ni particles in the anode, namely agglomeration of the Ni particles, have a tendency to increase with increasing the fine YSZ content. Since there is a significant limitation of the fine YSZ addition, optimization of the ratio of the coarse to the fine YSZ particles is quite important in obtaining an Ni–YSZ cermet anode with a high performance.

Generally, a composite, which is a mixture of NiO and YSZ, is used as a starting material of the anode. Although the NiO–YSZ composites can be fired on the YSZ sheet at high temperatures ≥1400 °C to improve the physical contact between the coarse YSZ particles, and between the anode and YSZ electrolyte layers, the high-temperature heat treatment definitely provides some following disadvantages: (1) because the YSZ electrolyte sheet shows superplastic deformation at high temperatures of approximately 1450 °C [9], there is difficulty in controlling the dimensional tolerance for the YSZ electrolyte sheet when the NiO–YSZ composite powder is fired on; and (2) because a small amount of the NiO component goes into the YSZ electrolyte at high temperature [10], there is a possibility that the mechanical strength of the electrolyte becomes weaker when the electrolyte is exposed to the reducing atmosphere. It is, therefore, desirable to lower the firing temperature of the composite material onto the YSZ electrolyte.

Quite recently, there has been growing interest in anode substrate-supported-type SOFCs with excellent single cell performance; Itoh [11] has reported a power density at an operating temperature of 1000 °C to be 1.35 W cm−2 (at 0.60 V and 2.25 A cm−2) using a supported-type single cell with 3.1 cm2 electrode area. In the case of the anode-supported cell, where the anode substrate provides the mechanical strength of the stack, strength is very important. Thus, it is desirable to form a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode. However, there is little fundamental data on the mechanical strength of these systems, which is in contrast to the vast amount of data available on their electrochemical properties [12–14].

In order to solve the problems above, sintering aids for the anode materials, which do not degrade the electrode performance, are thus quite attractive. TiO2 addition is effective in sintering YSZ [15], and TiO2-doped YSZ (Ti–YSZ), and is known to be a mixed conductor at low partial pressures of oxygen and improve at high temperatures ≥800 °C [16–19]. Therefore, TiO2 addition is expected to not only improve the anode performance, but also lower the firing temperature. The present study was conducted to examine crystallographic, electrical, thermal and mechanical properties of Ti–YSZ fluorites and Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets for use as an anode in the SOFC.

Ti–YSZ powders were synthesized in air by a standard solid-state reaction technique. TiO2 (99.9%, High Purity Chem., Japan) and YSZ (8 mol% Y2O3 stabilized ZrO2, >99.9%, Tosoh, Japan) were used as raw materials. The powders were weighed in the desired proportions, and mixed with ethanol in a planetary-type ball mill for 10 min, where the ball and container materials were Y2O3 partially stabilized ZrO2. After drying, the mixtures were calcined at 1100 °C for 5 h, at a heating/cooling rate of 200 °C h−1. The milling and heating procedures were repeated three times. The powders were fabricated into tablets at 100 MPa in an iso-press, and sintered at 1500 °C for 72 h. In this paper, the symbol xTi–YSZ corresponds to YSZ with x mol% TiO2.

NiO–Ti–YSZ composites were similarly prepared. NiO (>99%, Nacalai tesque, Japan) and the Ti–YSZ powders were thoroughly mixed with ethanol in the ball mill for 15 min. To obtain dense tablets with relative densities ≥95%, the powders were pressed and sintered at 1500 °C for 10 h in air. Theoretical density was determined from the experimental lattice parameters and unit formula. Density was determined from observed values of size and weight of the sintered tablet. Relative density was derived using the theoretical value. Theoretical densities used were 6.96 g cm−3 for NiO and 8.90 g cm−3 for Ni. In this paper, the D T and D R stand for the theoretical and relative densities, respectively.

All the samples were analyzed using powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) (18 kW, Mac Science, M18XHF22) with monochromated CuKα radiation and a scintillation detector. A scanning rate of 0.02° s−1 was employed. Microanalysis of the specimens was carried out using a Hitachi S4000 scanning electron microscope (SEM).

Raman spectroscopy was performed on samples of powders using a Jobin Yvon U1000 double beam pass spectrometer equipped with a microscope stage for analyzing small samples utilizing 180° incident geometry. A Spectra Physics argon-ion laser was employed to excite laser Raman Spectra using a 514 nm laser line at an incident power of ca. 10 mW, and a water-cooled photomultiplier tube. Spectra were obtained using 500 μm slit width and scanning rate used to collect the spectra was kept at 0.5 cm−1 s−1.

After reducing the specimens at 900 °C for 1 h in an H2 atmosphere, bending strength measurements were performed using a three-point bending apparatus at room temperature, 500 and 800 °C. The dimensions of the sintered specimens were approximately 2×2×15 mm length. The span length was 10 mm and the ramp speed was 3.0 mm min−1. For measurements at high temperatures, 500 and 800 °C, the sample was heated at a rate of 5 °C min−1 and held for 10 min before measuring. For measurements made at 800 °C, flowing Ar gas (>99.999%) was used. All the samples were polished and shamfered on all sides to a 1 μm polish.

Thermogravimetry (TG) measurements were carried out using a Mac Science TG–DTA 5000S equipment at a temperature range from room temperature to 1400 °C under an H2 atmosphere and at a heating rate of 10 °C min−1. Al2O3 powder was used as the reference material.

Thermal expansion behavior was measured using a Mac Science TD5000S apparatus. Samples were cut into a rectangular shape of 2×2×20 mm length. References used for the present measurement were a rod of fused silica in air, and sapphire in the H2 atmosphere. Measurements were performed at a heating/cooling rate of 2 °C min−1. The average linear thermal expansion coefficient (TEC) was calculated in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C. Although not strictly accurate, the TECs of the fluorite materials in this study are calculated by the following Eq. (1): (1) α=(1/L1)(L2−L1)/(T2−T1) where α is the TEC, T 1 is the starting temperature, T 2 is the terminal temperature of the experiment, L 1 and L 2 are initial and final gauge lengths, respectively. We have confirmed that this dilatometer has an experimental error of±0.06×10−6 °C−1 for the measurements made in air and±0.1×10−6 °C−1 for the measurements made in H2.

A flow rate of 50 ml min−1 H2 gas was used in the thermal property measurements after the gas had been bubbled through pure water at 10 °C. The partial pressure of oxygen observed at 1000 °C was almost the same as that calculated (3.6×10−19 atm for the calculated value vs. 4.2×10−19 atm for the observed value).

A dc four-terminal method, using Pt wires, was used to measure the electrical conductivity of the sintered samples. Measurements in air and H2 atmosphere were performed stepwise between 500 and 1000 °C.

The single cells for measuring anode polarization were prepared in air as follows: the 52.0 vol.% NiO–YSZ and 52.4 vol.% NiO–8Ti–YSZ (40 vol.% Ni–YSZ and 40 vol.% Ni–8Ti–YSZ) anode powders were coated onto one side of the YSZ electrolyte sheet using a slurry coating technique and then fired at 1400 °C for 10 h. After the cathode, (La0.8Sr0.2)0.95MnO3, was coated onto the other side, the whole was fired at 1200 °C for 4 h. The diameter of the effective electrode was approximately 2 cm. The heating and cooling rate in air, during all the fabrication processes, was 200 °C h−1.

Anode polarization at 1000 °C was made in air and the H2 atmosphere on the single cell using the current interruption technique, after passing sufficient electrical current; only the anode was sealed with a Pyrex glass O-ring, and Pt-meshes were used as electrical collectors. The single cell was heated to 1000 °C at a rate of 200 °C h−1, while air was flowing on the cathode side and N2 gas was flowing on the anode side. A flow rate of 0.7 l min−1 of H2 gas or 1.0 l min−1 of air and H2 gas bubbled through pure water at 20 °C were used when the anodic polarization measurements were carried out. The oxygen partial pressure at 1000 °C was calculated to be approximately 2.6×10−18 atm.

The lattice parameters, cell volumes and theoretical densities of the xTi–YSZ fluorites after heating at 1600 °C for 72 h in air are summarized in Table 1 . The crystal structure is known to be rutile with tetragonal symmetry (space group P42/mnm) for the TiO2 [20], and fluorite with cubic symmetry (space group Fm3m) for the YSZ [21]. XRD patterns of the Ti–YSZ system clarified that all peaks observed were ascribed to lines associated with the cubic fluorite structure. The lattice parameter of the YSZ was 5.1439 (3) Å and Z=4 in this study and agreed with that observed by McCarthy [21]. The lattice parameters of the Ti–YSZ fluorites had a tendency to decrease with increasing TiO2 content up to 10 mol% TiO2. The decrease in the lattice parameters and cell volumes is explained by the fact that the Ti4+ ion radius (88 pm) is smaller than that of the Zr4+ ions (98 pm) with the octagonal coordination of oxygen [22]. Since no second phase peaks were observed in the xTi–YSZ samples with x≤10 mol% TiO2, the solubility limit of Ti4+ in YSZ was thus estimated to be at least 10 mol% TiO2.

Traqueia et al. [23] have reported that the XRD patterns of the 10Ti–YSZ sample shows the presence of a tetragonal phase, and the 20Ti–YSZ sample shows the titanate phase (usually identified as ZrTiO4). The Ti–YSZ samples prepared in this work were fired at 1600 °C for 72 h compared to 1500 °C for 4 h used by Traqueia et al. [23] and this different fabrication temperature and time may attribute to the difference in phase composition. Although it is considered not to be an easy task to distinguish between the cubic and tetragonal fluorites from the XRD data, Raman spectroscopy provides a useful tool for the structural characterization of oxide materials. Several workers have studied the Raman spectra of the TiO2–ZrO2 system [24–26]. Azough et al. [24] observed Raman spectra for the compounds ZrTiO4 and Zr5Ti7O24 which were prepared from the mixed oxide route sintered at 1400 °C. Daturi et al. [25] obtained both XRD and Raman spectral data for the TiO2–ZrO2 system and found that, depending on the composition and the firing temperature, the phases of amorphous, tetragonal and monoclinic zirconia, ZrTiO4 and anatase, rutile and brookite TiO2 were observed. Few workers [23] have studied the Raman spectra of the TiO2–YSZ system for the xTi–YSZ solid solution range x=0–20. The Raman spectrum of YSZ showed the cubic-zirconia system, with a predominant band at ca. 610 cm−1 [27,28]. In the fluorite structure, a single vibration of symmetry F2g is Raman active as shown in Table 2 . However, the lack of long range order in the anion sublattice due to oxygen vacancies breaks the selection rules giving rise to several weaker features in the range from 0 to 800 cm−1 [26]. For the TiO2–YSZ solid solutions, bands at 149, 261, 322, 462, 630 and 720 cm−1 were observed and these were not attributable to rutile or anatase TiO2. These bands were assigned to the tetragonal phase of ZrO2 except for the band at 720 cm−1. For xTi–YSZ (x<10), the spectra were assigned by Traqueia et al. [23] to be the sum of cubic and tetragonal zirconia, and for 10Ti–YSZ and 20Ti–YSZ the presence of ZrTiO4 was observed in the Raman spectrum together with tetragonal and cubic zirconia. The number and type of Raman active modes for the base oxides of ZrO2, TiO2 and YSZ are shown in Table 3 . It can be seen that distinctive Raman band positions exist for the different phases of titania and zirconia, dependant upon the symmetry of the phase.

Fig. 1 shows the Raman spectra obtained for the xTi–YSZ system, where (a) x=0, (b) x=2, (c) x=4, (d) x=6, (e) x=8, and (f) x=10. It can be seen that there is a shift in the Raman profile with increasing Ti content, namely the increase in intensity of bands at 152, 278, and 724 cm−1. The band positions and phase assignments for these spectra are given in Table 2. The assignment of the phases present was made with reference to the literature, band positions shown in Table 3. These new bands cannot be attributed to either anatase, rutile or brookite titania. The cubic YSZ phase is predominant through the composition range, with traces of tetragonal zirconia observed at x>2. At x>8, the presence of the phase ZrTiO4 was observed by subtraction of the spectra for YSZ from the sample spectrum, as shown in Fig. 2 . The Raman results obtained here are, in general, consistent with the work of Traqueia et al. [23]. However, the tetragonal zirconia phase was only observed as a small component, in particular at x=10, with the cubic zirconia phase predominating. The different sample preparation condition may attribute to the difference in phase composition.

To understand the effect of Ti-doping in the Ni–YSZ cermet, on the mechanical strength and anode polarization, the solid-state reaction between NiO and TiO2, during the fabrication process of the NiO–xTi–YSZ samples, is quite important. In the NiO–TiO2 system, NiTiO3, with the ilmenite structure, and no solid solution for the NiO and TiO2 has been reported [33]. For the reaction between YSZ and NiO, Yamamoto et al. [10] reported that the solubility limit of NiO in YSZ was ≤2 mol% after heating at 1400 °C for 12 h in air. Kuzjukevics and Linderoth [34] also obtained similar results at 1600 °C for 80 h.

In this study, it was experimentally confirmed by the XRD measurements that the mixture of Ti–YSZ and NiO showed no reaction products after heating at 1500 °C for 10 h. Additionally, it was observed that the solubility limit of NiO in Ti–YSZ was ≤2 mol%. These results are very similar to those in the NiO–YSZ system. The theoretical and relative densities of the 52 vol.% NiO–xTi–YSZ and 40 vol.% Ni–xTi–YSZ specimens are shown in Tables 4 and 5 . Although a slight difference is seen on the relative density, it is negligible for the mechanical strength and anode polarization measurements.

Fig. 3 shows the average three-point bending strengths of the 40 vol.% Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets as a function of temperature with a parameter of Ti content. Fig. 4a–c show the three-point bending strength of the cermets at room temperature, 500 and 800 °C, as a function of Ti content. The broken lines in Fig. 4 represents the average mechanical strength calculated from five independent measurements. The average strength at room temperature was 99.3±13.0, 171.40±79.1 and 206.3±47.7 MPa for the YSZ, 4Ti–YSZ and 8Ti–YSZ cermets, respectively. The mechanical strength of the Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets at room temperature showed a tendency to increase with increasing Ti content. In general, the mechanical strength of ceramics decreases with increasing temperature, because the elastic modulus of ceramics decreases with increasing temperature [35,36]. Therefore, it could be postulated that the mechanical strength of cermets would decrease with increasing temperature. It is seen in these figures that the bending strength of the Ni–xTi–YSZ cermets at 500 and 800 °C decreased drastically. Although the mechanical strength of the Ti–YSZ at room temperature improved with Ti-doping, the enhancement of the strength was not significant at the high temperatures. It is well known that Y2O3 partially stabilized tetragonal ZrO2 has a high bending strength at room temperature and its strength decreases with increasing temperature [37,38]. From this study and a previous observation [23], Raman spectroscopy has shown that the anion sublattice is composed of tetragonal-like and cubic-like domains in the Ti–YSZ samples. The strengthening mechanism of Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets by TiO2 could thus be explained by the stress-induced phase transformation, which goes with a volume change on conversion of the tetragonal to monoclinic phase by the induced stress.

Fig. 5a,b show the SEM micrographs of the surface of the Ni–YSZ cermet specimen without TiO2 and the Ni–8Ti–YSZ cermet after grinding using #4000 grit paper. In these figures, the small particles are Ni metal, and the large ones are YSZ and 8Ti–YSZ. It can be seen from these figures that the remarkable grain growth of the Ti–YSZ particles in the cermets occurs by Ti-doping, because Ti-doping enhances the sintering characteristics of the YSZ particles [15]. This formation of a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode could be explained by the fact that the mechanical strength of the Ni–Ti–YSZ cermets increased by Ti-doping.

Fig. 6a–c show the SEM micrographs of the cross sections of the cermet specimens with different Ti contents after the mechanical strength measurements were undertaken. The effect of Ti-doping on the grain growth of Ti–YSZ particles was examined. From the observation of the microstructures, as shown in Fig. 7 , the grains of the Ti–YSZ in the cermets show transgranular fracture and an undulated surface. This suggests that the connection between the YSZ and Ti–YSZ particles contributes to the mechanical strength of the cermets.

Under the reducing atmosphere at high temperatures, Ti4+ ions in the Ti-based oxides can convert to Ti3+ ions depending on the oxygen partial pressure and temperature. This ionic valence change is charge-compensated by the release of oxygen and the formation of oxygen vacancies. Since the change in ionic valence, and the formation of oxygen vacancies strongly affect the electrical conductivity, thermal expansion behavior, and anode performance, a detailed understanding of these properties is indispensable. YSZ showed no formation of oxygen vacancies by the mechanism of oxygen release in the H2 atmosphere. On the other hand, it was observed that for TiO2, oxygen vacancies were formed which were produced at approximately 600 °C, and the observed oxygen vacancy content value in the TiO2−δ sample was δ=0.017 at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere.

Fig. 8a shows the oxygen content in the Ti–YSZ fluorites in the H2 atmosphere at the selected temperatures as a function of Ti content, when the oxygen contents in the fluorites are assumed to be zero at 25 °C in the H2 atmosphere. The formation of oxygen vacancies started at around 300 °C, and the vacancy concentration gradually increased at temperatures greater than∼600 °C. In order to clarify the effect of Ti content on oxygen vacancy content, the oxygen vacancy content is plotted as a function of temperature in Fig. 8b. The broken lines represent the oxygen vacancy content in TiO2−δ at 600 and 800 °C. The oxygen vacancy of the Ti–YSZ samples increased with increasing Ti content and temperature, and the observed oxygen vacancy content value in the 8Ti–YSZ sample was 0.0056 at 1000 °C.

The temperature dependence of electrical conductivity of the 8Ti–YSZ sample is shown in Fig. 9a . For ZrO2-based oxide-ion conductors, their electrical conductivities in air are entirely due to oxide ions. The electrical conductivity is represented by the function form σT∝exp (−E/k B T), where σ is the electrical conductivity, T is the absolute temperature, E is the activation energy for oxide-ion conduction, and k B is the Boltzmann constant. Linearity of the Arrhenius plots of conductivity for all the Ti–YSZ samples is shown in Fig. 9a. Because electronic conduction occurs in the Ti–YSZ fluorites due to the formation of the Ti3+ ion at high temperatures in a reducing atmosphere [16–18], the electrical conductivities in H2 were higher than those in air at temperatures ≥800 °C; the conductivity of the 8Ti–YSZ samples at 1000 °C was 0.032 S cm−1 in air and 0.041 S cm−1 in the H2 atmosphere.

In Fig. 9b, the changes in the electrical conductivity, for the Ti–YSZ at 1000 °C, are shown as a function of Ti content. The electrical conductivities of the xTi–YSZ with 6≤x≤10 in the H2 atmosphere were higher than those in air at all temperatures studied. Because the Ti3+ concentration in the Ti–YSZ samples increased with increasing Ti content, the difference in the conductivity between air and H2 atmosphere measurements showed a tendency to increase with increasing Ti content. In addition, the electrical conductivities decreased with increasing Ti content. This result suggests a decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ samples as a function of Ti-doping.

Since the oxide ion is transported in the fluorite structure via a hopping mechanism through the vacancy sites, a relationship between the lattice parameter and ionic radius of the cations is important for high oxide-ion conduction. From this viewpoint, the relationship between the lattice parameter, ionic radius of cations and oxide-ionic motion in the fluorite structure has been reported [39]. The value R f for oxide-ion conduction is evaluated by the following Eq. (2): (2) R f=a/( 6 )−r c where R f is the size of the cations with octagonal coordination of oxygen, R f is, in effect, the bottle-neck by which the oxide ion can go through, a is the lattice parameter and r c is the average radius of the cations. Since the calculated R f value increases with increasing Ti content, an increase in oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ fluorites is expected. However, the TiO2 concentration dependencies of electrical conductivity for the Ti–YSZ showed the reverse. Traqueia et al. [23] have reported similar results in that a significant decrease in oxide-ionic conductivity is observed for the Ti-doped YSZ with increasing Ti content. They also explained the reason for this decrease as follows: by Ti-doping, the oxygen sublattice converts from an ordered (cubic-like) region into a disordered (tetragonal) one. Since oxygen motion occurs primarily in the disordered region in the Ti–YSZ fluorites, the electrical conductivity decreases. From the Raman spectroscopy results, it is suggested that Ti-doping should give rise to an appearance of the tetragonal-like domains in the Ti–YSZ samples. Therefore, it seems that the remarkable decrease of oxide-ion conductivity for the Ti–YSZ samples relates to the appearance of the tetragonal-like domains by Ti-doping.

The TEC of YSZ was found to be 10.3×10−6 °C−1 in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C in air or in the H2 atmosphere. It is known that the TEC of Y2O3 fully stabilized ZrO2 is constant regardless of oxygen partial pressure and Y2O3 composition, as well as showing no anomaly of thermal expansion behavior related to phase transformation [3]. On the other hand, the TEC of TiO2 was 8.9×10−6 °C−1 in air, 9.2×10−6 °C−1 during the first heating cycle and 9.6×10−6 °C−1 during the second heating cycle in the H2 atmosphere. The TiO2 specimen showed a difference between its TECs in air and the H2 atmosphere. As discussed in the previous section, the TiO2−δ powder showed no oxygen vacancies in air, and the oxygen vacancy content value of δ=0.017 at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere. The thermal expansion mechanism for TiO2 with an increase in the TEC in the reducing atmosphere could be explained by either of the two following postulations: (1) the formation of the oxygen vacancies leads to a larger thermal expansion in TiO2−δ or (2) the average radius of Ti ions in the fluorite structure increases due to a change from the Ti4+ to the Ti3+ ion. The formation of oxygen vacancies also reduces Columbic interactions between the cation and the anion; accordingly the crystal expands [40]. Although the Ti ion in the fluorite structure should have octagonal coordination of oxygen, when a comparison is made using the radius of the Ti ion with hexagonal coordination of oxygen, it is 81 pm for Ti3+ ion and 74.5 pm for Ti4+ ions [22]. The TEC of TiO2 in the H2 atmosphere, during the second heating cycle, was larger than that during the second heating cycle. The dense TiO2 specimen with relative densities ≥99% was used for the TEC measurement. The TEC difference between the measurements during the first and second heating cycles could be related to the difference in oxygen vacancy concentration by a slow release of oxygen in the densely sintered sample.

The effect of oxygen vacancy formation, and dopant content, on the TEC of Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorites is rather complicated. Because the vacancies on the O-site are formed by substituting a lower valence ion, Y3+, on the Zr4+ ion site, the concentration of the vacancy is determined by the concentration of Y dopant. Generally, the oxygen vacancy formation in oxides increases their TECs. However, the TECs of Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorites decrease with increasing Y content, namely with increasing oxygen vacancies [41]. Additionally, the reverse results are observed from the viewpoint of the ionic bond strength of oxides. The TEC of oxides, in general, has a tendency to increase with increasing the ionic bond strength. Although Y-doping in ZrO2 increases the ionic bond strength of the YO bond in the fluorite structure, the TEC has a tendency to decrease with increasing Y content [41]. The cause for such TEC behavior in the Y2O3-doped ZrO2 fluorite system remains a matter to be discussed further.

Fig. 10a,b show the TECs of the Ti–YSZ fluorites in air, and during the first heating and second heating cycle in the H2 atmosphere as a function of Ti content. A small amount of increase in the TEC in air was observed. The compositional dependency for the TEC of the Ti–YSZ fluorites shows a reverse result with the empirical rule for the ionic bond strength; the values calculated are 0.594 for TiO and 0.671 for ZrO bond [42]. The TEC increase might be explained by the appearance of the tetragonal domains in the Ti–YSZ fluorites. Tsukuma et al. [43] reported that for the yttria-doped ZrO2 fluorites, when the tetragonal phase is compared with the cubic one, it shows a larger TEC. Therefore, the TEC increase in air might relate to the appearance of tetragonal domains in the fluorites by the Ti-dopant.

For the TEC measurement made in the H2 atmosphere, a small decrease in the TEC was observed. The compositional dependence of the TEC of the Ti–YSZ fluorites during the second heating cycle was similar to that of the first cycle. An increase in the average ionic radius and oxygen vacancy content in the crystal structure is effective in increasing the TEC [44]. However, the observed TEC of the Ti–YSZ tends to decrease with Ti content. Although, in this case, the oxygen vacancies are formed at temperatures ≥800 °C, their concentration is very low. Therefore, the increase in the average ionic radius of Ti ions, and oxygen vacancy content could be independent of the TEC in the temperature range from 50 to 1000 °C. There is, however, still room for argument about the thermal expansion mechanisms of the Ti–YSZ fluorites.

Fig. 11 shows the anodic polarization curves of the 40 vol.% Ni–YSZ and the 40 vol.% Ni–8Ti–YSZ cermet at 1000 °C in the H2 atmosphere. When the Ni–TiO2-doped YSZ anode was compared with the non-TiO2-doped sample, it showed a lower anodic polarization behavior (90 mV for non-Ti-doped vs. 60 mV for Ti-doped at 300 mA cm−2). In this cermet electrode, both ionic and electronic paths are constructed through the YSZ and Ni particles, respectively, and are connected via the area where the electrochemical reaction, O2−+H2→H2O+2e−, occurs. It would have been expected that the decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity in the Ti–YSZ by Ti-doping causes a decrease in the electroactive reaction area in the anode layer. However, the reverse result is observed. It could be postulated that the improved anodic polarization is related to the either of the two following possibilities, that is, (1) the electronic conduction should appear in the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode by Ti-doping, or (2) the sintering characteristics of the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode is higher in the sample containing Ti-dopant, compared to those of the YSZ.

Use of mixed conducting oxide cermet anodes results in an enlarged effective electrochemical reaction area over the whole particle surface beyond the three phase boundary area of physical contact points between the catalytic metal particles and the electrolyte [45]. Furthermore, the catalytic metal particles loaded on the oxide surface activate the anodic process at the boundary. Watanabe et al. [46] have confirmed that in SOFCs operating with H2–O2, the anodic polarization resistance, and its activation energy were greatly decreased by loading only a small amount of the catalytic metal particles onto the Sm2O3-doped ceria particles. In the case of the Ni–Ti-doped YSZ cermet, since electronic conduction appears in the Ti-doped YSZ particles, it cannot be denied that the increase in the electrochemical reaction area, on the Ti-doped YSZ particles, causes an improvement in the anodic polarization. However, it is observed that a decrease in the oxide-ion conductivity in the Ti-doped YSZ is caused by Ti-doping. The relationship between the decrease of the oxide-ion conductivity and anodic polarization remains a matter of further discussion.

The sintering characteristics of the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode, however, should be related to anodic performance. Takagi et al. [47] reported a simulation for a SOFC cermet anode as follows. In the completely mixed system of Ni and YSZ particles with the same particle size, a probability that a YSZ particle physically connects with another YSZ particle would be unity, irrespective of its location in the cermet anode. Thus, the active reaction area of YSZ particles in the anode, where oxide ions continuously go from the interface of the electrolyte to the anode, decreases exponentially in the direction of the electrode thickness. However, the active reaction area in the anode exists only in the region within 10 μm from the anode/electrolyte interface. Viewed in this light, the effect of a reduction in the electrical conductivity of the Ti–YSZ samples on the anodic performance could be negligible. In addition, the Ni–Ti-doped YSZ cermet anode showed a lower anodic polarization, in spite of a reduction in the electrical conductivity. It was experimentally confirmed that when the NiO–8Ti–YSZ tablet was compared with NiO–YSZ one, a higher relative density (77% for NiO–8Ti–YSZ vs. 65% for NiO–8Ti–YSZ) after heating at 1400 °C for 10 h was observed. Since Ti-doped YSZ enhances the sintering characteristics of NiO–Ti–YSZ composites, a strong solid YSZ framework in the anode could be suggested as forming. Since oxide-ionic diffusion, among the Ti–YSZ particles in the anode, and between anode and electrode layers could be promoted, the Ni–Ti–YSZ cermet anode showed the higher anodic performance. It seems reasonable to conclude that lowering the anodic polarization contributes to the promotion of oxide-ion conduction.

The crystallographic, mechanical, electrical, thermal and electrochemical properties of Ti-doped YSZ and its cermets have been examined as potential anode materials in the high-temperature SOFC. It seems reasonable to conclude that Ti-doping in YSZ appears to cause tetragonal domains in the cubic phase. The Ti-doped YSZ has a higher bending strength at room temperature. A small decrease in the TEC of the Ti–YSZ was observed. The electrical conductivities decreased with increasing Ti content. Although a 50% decrease in the electrical conductivity was exhibited by 8 mol% doping, the anodic polarization decreased from 90 to 60 mV at 300 mA cm−2. Thus, the Ti-doped YSZ cermets are a useful material for the anode, which can be used especially as the anode-supported type cell, where the anode substrate provides the mechanical strength of the stack.