Title:
Hydroxyl on the filler surface promotes Li

Abstract:
In this paper, the phenolic resin nano-spherical fillers (RFS) were added to PEO all-solid-state electrolytes, and the effect of surface groups (phenolic hydroxyl) of fillers on lithium ion conduction in PEO solid-state electrolyte was studied. It was found by AC impedance that the ion conductivity increased after adding 6% RFS (from 8.85 × 10−5 to 2.88 × 10−4 S cm−1 at 60 °C). It was unexpectedly found by DSC that RFS was different from traditional inert ceramics. It did not reduce the crystallinity of PEO in the matrix but lowered its the glass transition temperature, thereby increasing the ion conductivity. Infrared spectroscopy showed that the degree of complexation between Li+ and ether oxygen segment in PEO decreased after RFS was added. It is speculated that the lithium ion partly complexed with the oxygen atom of the hydroxyl group to form Li+ channels on the surface of RFS, and the effect of the hydrogen bond between the phenolic hydroxyl group and PEO can be ignored. The difference between the strength of this interaction is proved by theoretical calculation of its binding energy. Based on this, we propose that the hydroxyl group on the filler surface enhances lithium ion conduction mainly because the oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl group participate in the construction of lithium ion channels.

Keywords:
PEO solid state electrolyte
Phenolic resin fillers
Interaction
Hydroxyl

Acknowledgements:
Acknowledgment:
Acknowledgment The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Numbers 21875195, 22021001 and 51777208).

Graphical Abstract:
Unlabelled Image

Introduction:
Traditional lithium-ion batteries have potential safety hazards due to the use of flammable organic electrolytes, so solid state electrolytes with high safety have attracted more and more attention [1,2]. In comparison, all-solid-state electrolytes have the advantages of high safety and high energy density, among which polyether polymers (such as polyoxyethylene, PEO) have attracted lots of attention due to their low cost, easy processing and good flexibility [3–5]. However, the ionic conductivity of PEO at room temperature is only 10−8 to 10−6 S cm−1, which seriously limits its application. The PEO polymer all solid state electrolyte was first proposed by Wright et al. [6], and PEO electrolyte was widely studied and reported.
PEO is a semi crystalline polymer. When lithium salt is added to PEO matrix, lithium ion will be complexed with ether oxygen atoms of PEO segment, resulting in the dissociation and dissolution of lithium salt in PEO matrix [4,7]. At the same time, because PEO polymer segment will move above the glass transition temperature (Tg), therefore, Li+ will move with the movement of PEO segment and undergo a “complexation-decoupling-complexation” process between different ether oxygen atoms, thereby realizing the conduction of lithium ion [8,9]. It is found that the conduction of Li+ generally occurs in the amorphous phase region of PEO, so inert fillers (Al2O3, SiO2, TiO2, etc.) are added to inhibit the formation of crystalline phase of PEO [10–12], so as to increase the proportion of amorphous region and the conduction path of Li+ to improve the conductivity.
When the temperature rises above the melting point temperature (Tm), the crystallization region of PEO disappears completely, and the entire PEO matrix can conduct lithium ions. However, it is still found that the ionic conductivity of the composite electrolyte with inert ceramics is higher than that of the undoped electrolyte. Therefore, Groce et al. [12] proposed that the ceramic's surface -OH groups are expected to favor interactions (via hydrogen bonding) with PEO ether oxygen segment and lithium salt anion, accompanied with a consequent increase in salt dissociation and in the PEO amorphous phase fraction, the hydroxyl groups on the ceramic surface may compete with lithium ions to form complexes with PEO segments, thus promoting the structural modification of the polymer segments on the ceramic surface, thereby forming lithium ion transport channels. In addition, other researchers [13–16] have also observed the phenomenon of interaction between the ceramic surface and lithium salt, but there are also reports that there is no interaction between the filler prepared by gas phase method and lithium salt [17]. Therefore, we are interested in how the Lewis sites on the ceramic surface affect the lithium ion conduction in PEO system. We hope to have a deeper understanding of the interaction mechanism of ceramic surface, and provide ideas for the development of composite electrolyte with high conductivity.
Based on this, considering that the most common ceramic surface group is hydroxyl, and phenolic resin is the product of polycondensation of formaldehyde and resorcinol. We obtained stable phenolic resin nano-spherical filler (RFS) with a large number of polar groups (phenolic group) after hydrothermal curing [18,19]. Then we doped RFS fillers into PEO-LiClO4 system to study the effect of hydroxyl on lithium ion conduction. Meanwhile, it was previously reported that when phenolic resin polymer is blended with PEO polymer, it can reduce the crystallinity through hydrogen bond interaction, and can increase the additional transmission channel to increase the ionic conductivity [20,21]. And when we immobilized the phenolic resin polymer into nano-spherical fillers, through a series of analysis and theoretical calculations, we found that the main function of the RFS filler is the complexation of hydroxyl oxygen, rather than the interaction of hydrogen bonds. This discovery is of great significance to our understanding of how the polar groups (hydroxyl groups) on the surface of the filler affect the lithium ion conduction in the PEO-based solid-state electrolyte.

Experimental Section:
2.1 Synthesis of RFS Ammonia solution (25%–28%), resorcinol and formaldehyde solution (37 wt%) were purchased from Aladdin. RFS was synthesized according to the literature [18,19] with some modification. 600 μL of ammonia solution were added to 60 mL of water. Then 0.2 g of resorcinol and 600 μL of formaldehyde solution were added and reacted for 24 h under stirring. Then put it in a polytetrafluoroethylene hydrothermal reactor at 100 °C and react for 24 h. The red-brown solid obtained after the reaction was washed with a large amount of water and ethanol by centrifuged, and dried in vacuum at 100 °C to obtain red-brown RFS powders.
2.2 Preparation of composite solid-state electrolyte membrane PEO (Mw=600,000) was purchased from BASF Corporation. Anhydrous acetonitrile and lithium perchlorate (LiClO4) were purchased from Aladdin. PEO and LiClO4 with a molar ratio of 16 were dissolved in anhydrous acetonitrile to form a solution with a mass fraction of wt.10%. Then RFS with 6% mass fraction were added into PEO-LiClO4 solution. Stirred evenly and then put into polytetrafluoroethylene mold to volatilize acetonitrile solvent to form a membrane. Finally, the composite electrolyte membrane was prepared by vacuum drying at 50 °C for 24 h to remove the residual solvent. The membranes were abbreviated as PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS.
2.3 Characterizations The morphology of RFS was observed by field scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, S-4800, Hitachi). The interaction information of components in solid-state composite electrolyte membrane (SCE) was detected by attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR) using Nicolet IS5 spectrometer. The thermal behaviors of SCE were evaluated by differential scanning calorimeter (DSC 204, Netzsch). The melting temperatures (Tm) and apparent melting enthalpy (ΔHm) were determined from the DSC endothermic peaks, and the degree of crystallinity (X) of SCE was calculated from the following equations: X=ΔHm,PEO/(fPEO × ΔHPEO), where fPEO is the mass fraction of PEO in the corresponding SCE, ΔHm,PEO is the apparent melting enthalpy per gram of the SCE and ΔHPEO is the heat of melting per gram of 100% crystalline PEO, 213.7 J/g [22,23]. The SCE were punched into a circle with a diameter of 16 mm, and sandwiched between two stainless steel (SS) electrodes to calculate the ionic conductivity. The AC impedance was measured by Solartron 1260 impedance spectrometer in the range of 1 Hz–1 MHz over a temperature 25 to 100 °C in 10 °C intervals on heating. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) test was conducted on CHI 660E at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s to evaluate the electrochemical stability. The salt diffusion coefficient (D) was calculated by using the method of restricted diffusion [24,25]. When the symmetrical cell (Li/SCE/Li) was polarized with constant current, the time is long enough to generate the concentration gradient, and the current interruption will cause the open circuit voltage (V) decrease exponentially over time. The salt diffusion coefficient can be obtained from the slope of ln(ΔV) with time, ln ∆ V=− π 2 D L 2 t + A where D is the salt diffusion coefficient and L is thickness of electrolyte film. The galvanostatic polarization is continued at 0.1 mA until the open circuit voltage is about 10–20 mV. The SCE was assembled in a lithium symmetric cells and the lithium-ion transference number (tLi+ ) was calculated by the following formulas: t Li +=I s ∆ V − I 0 R 0 I 0 ∆ V − I s R s where I0and Isare the initial and steady state current; ∆V is the applied constant potential difference (20 mV); R0 and Rs are the interface impedance before and after polarization.
2.4 Assemble of solid-state lithium cells Electrochemical tests were carried out on the coin-type cells with LiFePO4 as cathode, SCE and lithium metal as anode. LiFePO4 (Taiwan Likai Co., Ltd.,), PEO16 and carbon were mixed in acetonitrile at a weight ratio of 6:2:2 and stirred for 12 h. The mixed slurry was coated on aluminum foil and dried at 60 °C in vacuum for 24 h. The positive disks were punched into a circle with a diameter of 12 mm and the active mass loading is about 1.0 mg/cm2. All cells were assembled in an Ar-filled glove box. The galvanostatic charge-discharge performance of the coin-type cells were tested in a potential range of 2.5 to 3.8 V at 60 °C using a NEWARE battery testing instrument.

Synthesis Of Rfs:
Ammonia solution (25%–28%), resorcinol and formaldehyde solution (37 wt%) were purchased from Aladdin. RFS was synthesized according to the literature [18,19] with some modification. 600 μL of ammonia solution were added to 60 mL of water. Then 0.2 g of resorcinol and 600 μL of formaldehyde solution were added and reacted for 24 h under stirring. Then put it in a polytetrafluoroethylene hydrothermal reactor at 100 °C and react for 24 h. The red-brown solid obtained after the reaction was washed with a large amount of water and ethanol by centrifuged, and dried in vacuum at 100 °C to obtain red-brown RFS powders.

Preparation Of Composite Solid-state Electrolyte Membrane:
PEO (Mw=600,000) was purchased from BASF Corporation. Anhydrous acetonitrile and lithium perchlorate (LiClO4) were purchased from Aladdin. PEO and LiClO4 with a molar ratio of 16 were dissolved in anhydrous acetonitrile to form a solution with a mass fraction of wt.10%. Then RFS with 6% mass fraction were added into PEO-LiClO4 solution. Stirred evenly and then put into polytetrafluoroethylene mold to volatilize acetonitrile solvent to form a membrane. Finally, the composite electrolyte membrane was prepared by vacuum drying at 50 °C for 24 h to remove the residual solvent. The membranes were abbreviated as PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS.

Characterizations:
The morphology of RFS was observed by field scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, S-4800, Hitachi). The interaction information of components in solid-state composite electrolyte membrane (SCE) was detected by attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR) using Nicolet IS5 spectrometer. The thermal behaviors of SCE were evaluated by differential scanning calorimeter (DSC 204, Netzsch). The melting temperatures (Tm) and apparent melting enthalpy (ΔHm) were determined from the DSC endothermic peaks, and the degree of crystallinity (X) of SCE was calculated from the following equations: X=ΔHm,PEO/(fPEO × ΔHPEO), where fPEO is the mass fraction of PEO in the corresponding SCE, ΔHm,PEO is the apparent melting enthalpy per gram of the SCE and ΔHPEO is the heat of melting per gram of 100% crystalline PEO, 213.7 J/g [22,23]. The SCE were punched into a circle with a diameter of 16 mm, and sandwiched between two stainless steel (SS) electrodes to calculate the ionic conductivity. The AC impedance was measured by Solartron 1260 impedance spectrometer in the range of 1 Hz–1 MHz over a temperature 25 to 100 °C in 10 °C intervals on heating. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) test was conducted on CHI 660E at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s to evaluate the electrochemical stability. The salt diffusion coefficient (D) was calculated by using the method of restricted diffusion [24,25]. When the symmetrical cell (Li/SCE/Li) was polarized with constant current, the time is long enough to generate the concentration gradient, and the current interruption will cause the open circuit voltage (V) decrease exponentially over time. The salt diffusion coefficient can be obtained from the slope of ln(ΔV) with time, ln ∆ V=− π 2 D L 2 t + A where D is the salt diffusion coefficient and L is thickness of electrolyte film. The galvanostatic polarization is continued at 0.1 mA until the open circuit voltage is about 10–20 mV.
The SCE was assembled in a lithium symmetric cells and the lithium-ion transference number (tLi+ ) was calculated by the following formulas: t Li +=I s ∆ V − I 0 R 0 I 0 ∆ V − I s R s
where I0and Isare the initial and steady state current; ∆V is the applied constant potential difference (20 mV); R0 and Rs are the interface impedance before and after polarization.

Assemble Of Solid-state Lithium Cells:
Electrochemical tests were carried out on the coin-type cells with LiFePO4 as cathode, SCE and lithium metal as anode. LiFePO4 (Taiwan Likai Co., Ltd.,), PEO16 and carbon were mixed in acetonitrile at a weight ratio of 6:2:2 and stirred for 12 h. The mixed slurry was coated on aluminum foil and dried at 60 °C in vacuum for 24 h. The positive disks were punched into a circle with a diameter of 12 mm and the active mass loading is about 1.0 mg/cm2. All cells were assembled in an Ar-filled glove box. The galvanostatic charge-discharge performance of the coin-type cells were tested in a potential range of 2.5 to 3.8 V at 60 °C using a NEWARE battery testing instrument.

Computational Details:
In order to insight the intermolecular interaction in the electrolyte, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed by using Gaussian09 E01 [26] software. The geometries of all molecules and ions were optimized using B3LYP-D3 [27,28] density functional with def2-SVP [29] basis set. Vibration analysis was performed at the same level to ensure that the geometry was a minimum. Single point energy of all optimized geometries was further calculated using M06-2×-D3 [30] density functional with def2-TZVP basis set. The energy used for discussion was single point energy. The phenolic resin was simplified to phenol, and the PEO was simplified to dimethyl ether. The visualization of geometries were performed using CYLview [31] software.

Result And Discussion:
4.1 Morphology of RFS According to the literature, the synthesized nano-spherical phenolic resin is shown in Fig. 1a, and its diameter is approximately 250 nm. Fig. 1b is the infrared spectrum analysis of the surface group of the synthesized RFS. It is found that OH stretching vibration occurs at 3440 cm−1; 2930 and 2850 cm−1 correspond to CH2 stretching vibration [32]; the peak at 1620 cm−1 is CCstretching vibration in benzene ring; the peak near 1460 cm−1 is related to the bending vibration of CH; the peak at 1100 cm−1 belongs to the stretching vibration of CH2 OH [33]. Combining the above information, we have clearly obtained phenolic resin nano-spheres with polar groups (phenolic hydroxyl groups) on the surface.
4.2 Ion transport properties Fillers RFS were added to PEO-LiClO4 to prepare solid-state composite electrolyte membranes. Their electron microscope pictures and actual pictures are shown in Fig. S1, and the fillers RFS were dispersed in the PEO matrix. Ions are transported in the PEO matrix, and its ion transport properties can be characterized by ion conductivity, lithium ion transference number and salt diffusion coefficient. The ionic conductivity (σ) of the SCE was calculated by the equation (σ=L/RA). Where L and S represents the thickness of SCE and the contact area (2 cm2) in the symmetric cells SS/SCE/SS, R is the bulk resistance obtained from the AC impedance spectra of the symmetric cells. The ionic conductivity of SCE doped with RFS at different temperatures is shown in Fig. 2 . After doping with 6% mass fractions of RFS, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 + 6%RFS has a certain degree of increase, such as at 25 °C, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 7.08 × 10−8 S cm−1 and 1.14 × 10−6 S cm−1, respectively. At 60 °C, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 8.85 × 10−5 and 2.88 × 10−4 S cm−1, respectively. It is preliminary judged that adding an appropriate amount of fillers with a large number of polar groups (phenolic hydroxyl) on the surface will help increase the ion conductivity of the pure solid-state electrolyte PEO16. In order to further study how RFS affects the conduction of PEO to lithium ions, we performed a fitting analysis on the temperature-conductivity data. In principle, when lithium ion is transported through the movement of the polymer PEO segment, the temperature-dependent ion transport behavior obeys the empirical Vogel-Tammann-Fulcher (VTF) equation [34–36]. The well-known VTF equation as following: σ=A T − 0.5 exp − B / R T − T o where A and B are fitting parameters relating the effective charge carrier concentration and pseudo-activation energy related to the segmental motion of the polymer chains, respectively, the T o is the equilibrium glass transition temperature, usually 30–50 °C lower than T g , here we take the value Tg-50. R is the ideal gas constant (8.314 J mol−1 K−1). Since PEO is a semi-crystalline polymer below the melting point, it fits the relationship between its ionic conductivity and temperature above the melting point temperature. The fitted equation curve is in Fig. S2, we can get that the pseudo-activation energy of PEO is about 10.2 kJ mol−1; the value of PEO + 6%RFS is about 9.8 kJ mol−1. It shows that the energy barrier of Li+ conduction through PEO segment decreases after adding RFS, which is more conducive to Li+ conduction. The lithium ion transference number (tLi+) can distinguish the ratio of cations (lithium ions) to all ion migration. The higher its value, the greater the contribution of lithium ions to conductivity. The lithium ion transference number can be calculated by measuring the current relaxation curve and impedance value of the lithium‑lithium symmetrical cell under the polarization voltage. As shown in Fig. S3, the lithium ion transference number of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 0.20 and 0.34, respectively, which means the tLi+ increases after RFS is added, that is, RFS is conducive to lithium ion migration. The diffusion coefficient (D) of the salt can also provide useful information of ion mobility. The diffusion coefficient is calculated by the restricted diffusion method [24,37]. When we ignore the interaction between ions, the ion conductivity can be expressed as: σ=∑ n i z i μ i And the relationship between ionic mobility (μ) and diffusion coefficient (D) is in accordance with Einstein's equation: μ=eD/(TkB). From this we can find that the greater the diffusion coefficient, the greater the ion mobility. As shown in the Fig. S4, the diffusion coefficients of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 2.43 × 10−8 and 5.9 × 10−8 cm2•s−1, respectively. The relevant parameters are listed in Table 1 . Combined with the calculation of the t Li+, we obtain the lithium ion diffusion coefficient (D+) of the two, and further confirm that the addition of RFS promotes the diffusion of lithium ions, which in turn leads to an increase in ion conductivity. The movement of lithium ions in the all-solid-state PEO matrix depends on the movement of the PEO segment. Therefore, the increase in the D+ should also be attributed to the enhancement of the movement ability of the PEO polymer segment. We confirmed the change of polymer PEO in composite solid state electrolyte by thermal analysis.
4.3 Analysis of ion transport behavior 4.3.1 DSC It is well known that the migration of lithium ions in PEO matrix depends on the movement of PEO segments. After RFS is added, the increase of the migration rate of lithium ions is likely due to the improvement of the movement ability of PEO segments. Therefore, we further studied the change of PEO by thermal analysis. PEO is a semi-crystalline polymer, so the thermal behavior of various SCE can be evaluated by DSC equipment. Fig. 3 shows DSC traces of different composite electrolyte. All curves clearly show the melting-crystallization peaks of SCE, the corresponding melting temperature (Tm), and apparent melting enthalpy (ΔHm) were obtained from the DSC endothermic peaks [38,39]. Comparing the changes of this information before and after doping can determine how the RFS fillers affects the relative physical properties of PEO. The glass transition temperature (Tg) represents the lowest temperature at which the polymer molecular segments can move. The more flexible the polymer segments, the lower the glass transition temperature [40–42]. When the lithium salt dissolved in the PEO matrix, the lithium ions move along with the chain segment of PEO. Therefore, the stronger the PEO segment movement ability, the faster the lithium ion migration rate. Unexpectedly, from the Fig. 3a, we found that the addition of RFS fillers have little effect on the Tm of the base PEO, and has a greater effect on the Tg of the base PEO (from −27.9 to −50.5 °C). When further analysis of the PEO melting enthalpy to calculate the crystallinity of PEO (X%), it was found that the addition of RFS fillers also does not significantly reduce the crystallinity of PEO. The relevant data are shown in Table 2 . Generally, the addition of inert fillers (TiO2, SiO2, Al2O3) to the PEO matrix will significantly reduce the Tm of PEO, and accompanied by a decrease in crystallinity, which can increase the effective path for conducting Li+ in PEO [11,13,43]. To our surprise, the fillers RFS did not reduce the crystallinity of PEO, but decreased the Tg of PEO and increased the mobility ability of the PEO segments, which is also conducive to the conduction of the PEO segment to Li+. Meanwhile, this result is consistent with the conclusion that we found in the VTF fitting equation that adding RFS can significantly reduce the pseudo-activation energy of PEO to enhance the movement ability of the segment. The doped PEO becomes easier to conduct lithium ions, which may be due to the enhancement of PEO segment mobility. In order to illustrate the problem more fully, we also added the same proportion of RFS fillers to PEO system without lithium salt, as shown in Fig. 3b. Compared with the case of adding LiClO4, according to the changes of Tm and crystallinity, the addition of RFS can't reduce the crystallinity of PEO, that is, the effect of RFS on PEO is relatively weak, and it is more likely to affect the complex state of PEOLi+. In order to verify the conjecture, we studied the interaction between ions and groups by infrared spectroscopy. 4.3.2 FTIR Infrared spectroscopy is an effective means to diagnose the changes in the interaction between ions and groups. As shown in Fig. 4a, it is observed that the C-O-C stretching mode of PEO polymer in the region of 1000 to 1200 cm−1 shows a strong triplet state with the center at 1103 cm−1 and the shoulders peak at 1147 and 1061 cm−1. In this mode, the 1103 cm−1 peak represents the amorphous phase region, while the peaks at 1147 and 1061 cm−1 are the crystalline phases of characteristic PEO [44–48]. After lithium salt (LiClO4) was added into PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4b, the peak at 1103 moved to 1096 cm−1 [45,49], and the shoulders peak part disappeared, suggesting that Li+ ions coordinated with the ether oxygen group of PEO, and broke part of its crystalline region and increased the ratio of amorphous region. The RFS fillers were doped into the PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4c, the COC band of the amorphous region at 1096 cm−1 shifted to 1099 cm−1. Compared with the position in pure PEO (1103 cm−1), we speculate that the ether oxygen group in the amorphous region are partially dissociated from Li+ ions, and the complexation effect is weakened, which is also consistent with the decreasing trend of Tg of PEO observed by DSC. The complexation between lithium ion and ether oxygen group is weakened, and lithium ion may combine with anion (ClO4 −) and not dissolve in PEO matrix. Therefore, we have characterized ClO4 − group in PEO matrix. It has been reported that 624 cm−1 of absorption band is related to free anions that does not directly with Li+, and 635 cm−1 is attributed to contact ion pairs [41,50]. As shown in Fig. 4d, we analyzed the area ratio of the relevant are in PEO16 solid state electrolyte, the free ClO4 − ions in dissociation state accounted for 89.7% of all anions, while in the PEO16 + 6%RFS solid state electrolyte, the value is 90.1%. Therefore, we believe that Li+ is still in the complexation state in PEO matrix, but the complex state of lithium ion is different. When RFS was added, we came to the conclusion that lithium ions were still in a complex state, but the complexation between PEO and Li+ was weakened, so the biggest possibility is that some lithium ions are complexed with RFS. The oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl groups on the RFS surface may be similar to PEO ether oxygen, which can complex with lithium ions. This conjecture is verified by theoretical calculation of binding energy. (See Fig. 5)
4.4 Theoretical calculations According to theoretical calculations, the binding energy of the phenolic hydroxyl group and the ether oxygen in PEO is about −8.8 kcal mol−1, compared with binding energy of the lithium ion with the ether oxygen in PEO is about −39.5 kcal mol−1, we can clearly find that the hydrogen bonding force of RFS and PEO is obviously weaker than the force of ether oxygen in PEO and Li+. Therefore, when RFS fillers are added to the PEO-LiClO4 system, the hydrogen bonding effect of RFS is not enough to affect the complex state of ether oxygen and Li+. Similarly, we calculated that the oxygen atom in the phenolic hydroxyl group can also be complexed with Li+, and its binding force is about −36.6 kcal mol−1, which is similar to the ether oxygen atom in the PEO segment. So, we judged that a part of the lithium ions will be complexed with the oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl group on the surface of the RFS. Correspondingly, the complexation of the ether oxygen with Li+ in PEO will be weakened. This phenomenon is consistent with the shift of COC in PEO found in the infrared spectrum. Moreover, this partial substitution also results in the decrease of Li+ binding to PEO, which may also explain why the Tg of PEO decreased and the segmental mobility increased with the addition of RFS. So far, we believe that the surface hydroxyl group of RFS has a weak effect on the ether oxygen segment of PEO, and the main occurrence is that the oxygen atom in the hydroxyl group can be complexed with Li+, which changes the complex state of ether oxygen and Li+. This also explains the formation of lithium ion channels on the ceramic surface, which is also due to the oxygen atoms in their surface hydroxyl groups providing lithium ion complexing sites, which together with the ether oxygen in PEO build lithium ion transport channels on the surface. In addition, we also calculated the binding energy of the phenolic hydroxyl group and the anion (ClO4 −), which is about −17.8 kcal mol−1, which is also significantly weaker than the binding energy of Li+ and oxygen atoms. Combined with the fact that there is no obvious shift of anion in the infrared spectrum (Fig. 4d), that is, the adsorption of phenolic hydroxyl groups on anions is not obvious. Therefore, we think that the hydroxyl effect on the filler surface is mainly reflected in the reconstruction of the complex state of oxygen atom and lithium ion, and the specific process can refer to the schematic diagram (Fig. 6 ). At the interface of RFS and PEO, the oxygen in the hydroxyl group provides the complexation site for lithium ion. Therefore, lithium ion complexes with ether oxygen in PEO and oxygen in the hydroxyl group, and migrates with the movement of the chain segment of PEO, so as to realize the conduction of lithium ion at the interface.
4.5 Cells The prepared SCE membrane were assembled in a LiFePO4 half-cell, and its rate performance and cycle performance was tested at 60 °C. As shown in the Fig. 7 , when PEO16 + 6%RFS was used as a composite electrolyte under different current densities, the discharge capacity of LiFePO4 in 0.2C above current density is greater than that of PEO16 as electrolyte, this may be because the ionic conductivity of PEO16 + 6%RFS is greater than that of PEO16. In the cycle performance test, the discharge capacity decayed with time. This is due to the cyclic volumetric change caused by the LiFePO4 FePO4 two-phase reaction, which in turn leads to insufficient contact between the electrode and the electrolyte interface [51].

Morphology Of Rfs:
According to the literature, the synthesized nano-spherical phenolic resin is shown in Fig. 1a, and its diameter is approximately 250 nm. Fig. 1b is the infrared spectrum analysis of the surface group of the synthesized RFS. It is found that OH stretching vibration occurs at 3440 cm−1; 2930 and 2850 cm−1 correspond to CH2 stretching vibration [32]; the peak at 1620 cm−1 is CCstretching vibration in benzene ring; the peak near 1460 cm−1 is related to the bending vibration of CH; the peak at 1100 cm−1 belongs to the stretching vibration of CH2 OH [33]. Combining the above information, we have clearly obtained phenolic resin nano-spheres with polar groups (phenolic hydroxyl groups) on the surface.

Ion Transport Properties:
Fillers RFS were added to PEO-LiClO4 to prepare solid-state composite electrolyte membranes. Their electron microscope pictures and actual pictures are shown in Fig. S1, and the fillers RFS were dispersed in the PEO matrix. Ions are transported in the PEO matrix, and its ion transport properties can be characterized by ion conductivity, lithium ion transference number and salt diffusion coefficient. The ionic conductivity (σ) of the SCE was calculated by the equation (σ=L/RA). Where L and S represents the thickness of SCE and the contact area (2 cm2) in the symmetric cells SS/SCE/SS, R is the bulk resistance obtained from the AC impedance spectra of the symmetric cells. The ionic conductivity of SCE doped with RFS at different temperatures is shown in Fig. 2 . After doping with 6% mass fractions of RFS, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 + 6%RFS has a certain degree of increase, such as at 25 °C, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 7.08 × 10−8 S cm−1 and 1.14 × 10−6 S cm−1, respectively. At 60 °C, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 8.85 × 10−5 and 2.88 × 10−4 S cm−1, respectively. It is preliminary judged that adding an appropriate amount of fillers with a large number of polar groups (phenolic hydroxyl) on the surface will help increase the ion conductivity of the pure solid-state electrolyte PEO16. In order to further study how RFS affects the conduction of PEO to lithium ions, we performed a fitting analysis on the temperature-conductivity data.
In principle, when lithium ion is transported through the movement of the polymer PEO segment, the temperature-dependent ion transport behavior obeys the empirical Vogel-Tammann-Fulcher (VTF) equation [34–36]. The well-known VTF equation as following: σ=A T − 0.5 exp − B / R T − T o where A and B are fitting parameters relating the effective charge carrier concentration and pseudo-activation energy related to the segmental motion of the polymer chains, respectively, the T o is the equilibrium glass transition temperature, usually 30–50 °C lower than T g , here we take the value Tg-50. R is the ideal gas constant (8.314 J mol−1 K−1). Since PEO is a semi-crystalline polymer below the melting point, it fits the relationship between its ionic conductivity and temperature above the melting point temperature. The fitted equation curve is in Fig. S2, we can get that the pseudo-activation energy of PEO is about 10.2 kJ mol−1; the value of PEO + 6%RFS is about 9.8 kJ mol−1. It shows that the energy barrier of Li+ conduction through PEO segment decreases after adding RFS, which is more conducive to Li+ conduction.
The lithium ion transference number (tLi+) can distinguish the ratio of cations (lithium ions) to all ion migration. The higher its value, the greater the contribution of lithium ions to conductivity. The lithium ion transference number can be calculated by measuring the current relaxation curve and impedance value of the lithium‑lithium symmetrical cell under the polarization voltage. As shown in Fig. S3, the lithium ion transference number of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 0.20 and 0.34, respectively, which means the tLi+ increases after RFS is added, that is, RFS is conducive to lithium ion migration.
The diffusion coefficient (D) of the salt can also provide useful information of ion mobility. The diffusion coefficient is calculated by the restricted diffusion method [24,37]. When we ignore the interaction between ions, the ion conductivity can be expressed as: σ=∑ n i z i μ i
And the relationship between ionic mobility (μ) and diffusion coefficient (D) is in accordance with Einstein's equation: μ=eD/(TkB). From this we can find that the greater the diffusion coefficient, the greater the ion mobility. As shown in the Fig. S4, the diffusion coefficients of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 2.43 × 10−8 and 5.9 × 10−8 cm2•s−1, respectively. The relevant parameters are listed in Table 1 . Combined with the calculation of the t Li+, we obtain the lithium ion diffusion coefficient (D+) of the two, and further confirm that the addition of RFS promotes the diffusion of lithium ions, which in turn leads to an increase in ion conductivity. The movement of lithium ions in the all-solid-state PEO matrix depends on the movement of the PEO segment. Therefore, the increase in the D+ should also be attributed to the enhancement of the movement ability of the PEO polymer segment. We confirmed the change of polymer PEO in composite solid state electrolyte by thermal analysis.

Analysis Of Ion Transport Behavior:
4.3.1 DSC It is well known that the migration of lithium ions in PEO matrix depends on the movement of PEO segments. After RFS is added, the increase of the migration rate of lithium ions is likely due to the improvement of the movement ability of PEO segments. Therefore, we further studied the change of PEO by thermal analysis. PEO is a semi-crystalline polymer, so the thermal behavior of various SCE can be evaluated by DSC equipment. Fig. 3 shows DSC traces of different composite electrolyte. All curves clearly show the melting-crystallization peaks of SCE, the corresponding melting temperature (Tm), and apparent melting enthalpy (ΔHm) were obtained from the DSC endothermic peaks [38,39]. Comparing the changes of this information before and after doping can determine how the RFS fillers affects the relative physical properties of PEO. The glass transition temperature (Tg) represents the lowest temperature at which the polymer molecular segments can move. The more flexible the polymer segments, the lower the glass transition temperature [40–42]. When the lithium salt dissolved in the PEO matrix, the lithium ions move along with the chain segment of PEO. Therefore, the stronger the PEO segment movement ability, the faster the lithium ion migration rate. Unexpectedly, from the Fig. 3a, we found that the addition of RFS fillers have little effect on the Tm of the base PEO, and has a greater effect on the Tg of the base PEO (from −27.9 to −50.5 °C). When further analysis of the PEO melting enthalpy to calculate the crystallinity of PEO (X%), it was found that the addition of RFS fillers also does not significantly reduce the crystallinity of PEO. The relevant data are shown in Table 2 . Generally, the addition of inert fillers (TiO2, SiO2, Al2O3) to the PEO matrix will significantly reduce the Tm of PEO, and accompanied by a decrease in crystallinity, which can increase the effective path for conducting Li+ in PEO [11,13,43]. To our surprise, the fillers RFS did not reduce the crystallinity of PEO, but decreased the Tg of PEO and increased the mobility ability of the PEO segments, which is also conducive to the conduction of the PEO segment to Li+. Meanwhile, this result is consistent with the conclusion that we found in the VTF fitting equation that adding RFS can significantly reduce the pseudo-activation energy of PEO to enhance the movement ability of the segment. The doped PEO becomes easier to conduct lithium ions, which may be due to the enhancement of PEO segment mobility. In order to illustrate the problem more fully, we also added the same proportion of RFS fillers to PEO system without lithium salt, as shown in Fig. 3b. Compared with the case of adding LiClO4, according to the changes of Tm and crystallinity, the addition of RFS can't reduce the crystallinity of PEO, that is, the effect of RFS on PEO is relatively weak, and it is more likely to affect the complex state of PEOLi+. In order to verify the conjecture, we studied the interaction between ions and groups by infrared spectroscopy.
4.3.2 FTIR Infrared spectroscopy is an effective means to diagnose the changes in the interaction between ions and groups. As shown in Fig. 4a, it is observed that the C-O-C stretching mode of PEO polymer in the region of 1000 to 1200 cm−1 shows a strong triplet state with the center at 1103 cm−1 and the shoulders peak at 1147 and 1061 cm−1. In this mode, the 1103 cm−1 peak represents the amorphous phase region, while the peaks at 1147 and 1061 cm−1 are the crystalline phases of characteristic PEO [44–48]. After lithium salt (LiClO4) was added into PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4b, the peak at 1103 moved to 1096 cm−1 [45,49], and the shoulders peak part disappeared, suggesting that Li+ ions coordinated with the ether oxygen group of PEO, and broke part of its crystalline region and increased the ratio of amorphous region. The RFS fillers were doped into the PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4c, the COC band of the amorphous region at 1096 cm−1 shifted to 1099 cm−1. Compared with the position in pure PEO (1103 cm−1), we speculate that the ether oxygen group in the amorphous region are partially dissociated from Li+ ions, and the complexation effect is weakened, which is also consistent with the decreasing trend of Tg of PEO observed by DSC. The complexation between lithium ion and ether oxygen group is weakened, and lithium ion may combine with anion (ClO4 −) and not dissolve in PEO matrix. Therefore, we have characterized ClO4 − group in PEO matrix. It has been reported that 624 cm−1 of absorption band is related to free anions that does not directly with Li+, and 635 cm−1 is attributed to contact ion pairs [41,50]. As shown in Fig. 4d, we analyzed the area ratio of the relevant are in PEO16 solid state electrolyte, the free ClO4 − ions in dissociation state accounted for 89.7% of all anions, while in the PEO16 + 6%RFS solid state electrolyte, the value is 90.1%. Therefore, we believe that Li+ is still in the complexation state in PEO matrix, but the complex state of lithium ion is different. When RFS was added, we came to the conclusion that lithium ions were still in a complex state, but the complexation between PEO and Li+ was weakened, so the biggest possibility is that some lithium ions are complexed with RFS. The oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl groups on the RFS surface may be similar to PEO ether oxygen, which can complex with lithium ions. This conjecture is verified by theoretical calculation of binding energy. (See Fig. 5)

Dsc:
It is well known that the migration of lithium ions in PEO matrix depends on the movement of PEO segments. After RFS is added, the increase of the migration rate of lithium ions is likely due to the improvement of the movement ability of PEO segments. Therefore, we further studied the change of PEO by thermal analysis. PEO is a semi-crystalline polymer, so the thermal behavior of various SCE can be evaluated by DSC equipment. Fig. 3 shows DSC traces of different composite electrolyte. All curves clearly show the melting-crystallization peaks of SCE, the corresponding melting temperature (Tm), and apparent melting enthalpy (ΔHm) were obtained from the DSC endothermic peaks [38,39]. Comparing the changes of this information before and after doping can determine how the RFS fillers affects the relative physical properties of PEO. The glass transition temperature (Tg) represents the lowest temperature at which the polymer molecular segments can move. The more flexible the polymer segments, the lower the glass transition temperature [40–42]. When the lithium salt dissolved in the PEO matrix, the lithium ions move along with the chain segment of PEO. Therefore, the stronger the PEO segment movement ability, the faster the lithium ion migration rate. Unexpectedly, from the Fig. 3a, we found that the addition of RFS fillers have little effect on the Tm of the base PEO, and has a greater effect on the Tg of the base PEO (from −27.9 to −50.5 °C). When further analysis of the PEO melting enthalpy to calculate the crystallinity of PEO (X%), it was found that the addition of RFS fillers also does not significantly reduce the crystallinity of PEO. The relevant data are shown in Table 2 . Generally, the addition of inert fillers (TiO2, SiO2, Al2O3) to the PEO matrix will significantly reduce the Tm of PEO, and accompanied by a decrease in crystallinity, which can increase the effective path for conducting Li+ in PEO [11,13,43]. To our surprise, the fillers RFS did not reduce the crystallinity of PEO, but decreased the Tg of PEO and increased the mobility ability of the PEO segments, which is also conducive to the conduction of the PEO segment to Li+. Meanwhile, this result is consistent with the conclusion that we found in the VTF fitting equation that adding RFS can significantly reduce the pseudo-activation energy of PEO to enhance the movement ability of the segment. The doped PEO becomes easier to conduct lithium ions, which may be due to the enhancement of PEO segment mobility. In order to illustrate the problem more fully, we also added the same proportion of RFS fillers to PEO system without lithium salt, as shown in Fig. 3b. Compared with the case of adding LiClO4, according to the changes of Tm and crystallinity, the addition of RFS can't reduce the crystallinity of PEO, that is, the effect of RFS on PEO is relatively weak, and it is more likely to affect the complex state of PEOLi+. In order to verify the conjecture, we studied the interaction between ions and groups by infrared spectroscopy.

Ftir:
Infrared spectroscopy is an effective means to diagnose the changes in the interaction between ions and groups. As shown in Fig. 4a, it is observed that the C-O-C stretching mode of PEO polymer in the region of 1000 to 1200 cm−1 shows a strong triplet state with the center at 1103 cm−1 and the shoulders peak at 1147 and 1061 cm−1. In this mode, the 1103 cm−1 peak represents the amorphous phase region, while the peaks at 1147 and 1061 cm−1 are the crystalline phases of characteristic PEO [44–48]. After lithium salt (LiClO4) was added into PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4b, the peak at 1103 moved to 1096 cm−1 [45,49], and the shoulders peak part disappeared, suggesting that Li+ ions coordinated with the ether oxygen group of PEO, and broke part of its crystalline region and increased the ratio of amorphous region. The RFS fillers were doped into the PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4c, the COC band of the amorphous region at 1096 cm−1 shifted to 1099 cm−1. Compared with the position in pure PEO (1103 cm−1), we speculate that the ether oxygen group in the amorphous region are partially dissociated from Li+ ions, and the complexation effect is weakened, which is also consistent with the decreasing trend of Tg of PEO observed by DSC. The complexation between lithium ion and ether oxygen group is weakened, and lithium ion may combine with anion (ClO4 −) and not dissolve in PEO matrix. Therefore, we have characterized ClO4 − group in PEO matrix. It has been reported that 624 cm−1 of absorption band is related to free anions that does not directly with Li+, and 635 cm−1 is attributed to contact ion pairs [41,50]. As shown in Fig. 4d, we analyzed the area ratio of the relevant are in PEO16 solid state electrolyte, the free ClO4 − ions in dissociation state accounted for 89.7% of all anions, while in the PEO16 + 6%RFS solid state electrolyte, the value is 90.1%. Therefore, we believe that Li+ is still in the complexation state in PEO matrix, but the complex state of lithium ion is different. When RFS was added, we came to the conclusion that lithium ions were still in a complex state, but the complexation between PEO and Li+ was weakened, so the biggest possibility is that some lithium ions are complexed with RFS. The oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl groups on the RFS surface may be similar to PEO ether oxygen, which can complex with lithium ions. This conjecture is verified by theoretical calculation of binding energy. (See Fig. 5)

Theoretical Calculations:
According to theoretical calculations, the binding energy of the phenolic hydroxyl group and the ether oxygen in PEO is about −8.8 kcal mol−1, compared with binding energy of the lithium ion with the ether oxygen in PEO is about −39.5 kcal mol−1, we can clearly find that the hydrogen bonding force of RFS and PEO is obviously weaker than the force of ether oxygen in PEO and Li+. Therefore, when RFS fillers are added to the PEO-LiClO4 system, the hydrogen bonding effect of RFS is not enough to affect the complex state of ether oxygen and Li+. Similarly, we calculated that the oxygen atom in the phenolic hydroxyl group can also be complexed with Li+, and its binding force is about −36.6 kcal mol−1, which is similar to the ether oxygen atom in the PEO segment. So, we judged that a part of the lithium ions will be complexed with the oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl group on the surface of the RFS. Correspondingly, the complexation of the ether oxygen with Li+ in PEO will be weakened. This phenomenon is consistent with the shift of COC in PEO found in the infrared spectrum. Moreover, this partial substitution also results in the decrease of Li+ binding to PEO, which may also explain why the Tg of PEO decreased and the segmental mobility increased with the addition of RFS. So far, we believe that the surface hydroxyl group of RFS has a weak effect on the ether oxygen segment of PEO, and the main occurrence is that the oxygen atom in the hydroxyl group can be complexed with Li+, which changes the complex state of ether oxygen and Li+. This also explains the formation of lithium ion channels on the ceramic surface, which is also due to the oxygen atoms in their surface hydroxyl groups providing lithium ion complexing sites, which together with the ether oxygen in PEO build lithium ion transport channels on the surface.
In addition, we also calculated the binding energy of the phenolic hydroxyl group and the anion (ClO4 −), which is about −17.8 kcal mol−1, which is also significantly weaker than the binding energy of Li+ and oxygen atoms. Combined with the fact that there is no obvious shift of anion in the infrared spectrum (Fig. 4d), that is, the adsorption of phenolic hydroxyl groups on anions is not obvious. Therefore, we think that the hydroxyl effect on the filler surface is mainly reflected in the reconstruction of the complex state of oxygen atom and lithium ion, and the specific process can refer to the schematic diagram (Fig. 6 ). At the interface of RFS and PEO, the oxygen in the hydroxyl group provides the complexation site for lithium ion. Therefore, lithium ion complexes with ether oxygen in PEO and oxygen in the hydroxyl group, and migrates with the movement of the chain segment of PEO, so as to realize the conduction of lithium ion at the interface.

Cells:
The prepared SCE membrane were assembled in a LiFePO4 half-cell, and its rate performance and cycle performance was tested at 60 °C. As shown in the Fig. 7 , when PEO16 + 6%RFS was used as a composite electrolyte under different current densities, the discharge capacity of LiFePO4 in 0.2C above current density is greater than that of PEO16 as electrolyte, this may be because the ionic conductivity of PEO16 + 6%RFS is greater than that of PEO16. In the cycle performance test, the discharge capacity decayed with time. This is due to the cyclic volumetric change caused by the LiFePO4 FePO4 two-phase reaction, which in turn leads to insufficient contact between the electrode and the electrolyte interface [51].

Conclusions:
In this paper, the addition of RFS with hydroxyl groups on the surface to PEO + LiClO4 system can significantly increase the ionic conductivity, and the characterization found that the increase of ionic conductivity does not depend on the increase of the proportion of amorphous region, but on the decrease of Tg, that is, RFS can increase the segmental mobility of PEO in PEO16, so that it can conduct lithium ion faster. At the same time, through the lithium ion transference number and salt diffusion coefficient test, it is found that the diffusion rate of lithium ion has increased. This change in the complexation state of lithium ions can be clearly observed through infrared spectroscopy. The degree of complexation between Li+ and ether oxygen in PEO is weakened, and the oxygen in the hydroxyl group is partially complexed with lithium ions. The change of this interaction force is proved by theoretical calculation of their binding energy that lithium ions can be complexed with the ether oxygen in PEO or the oxygen in the hydroxyl group. This also verifies the presence of lithium ion transport channels on the filler surface, which provides support for the design of solid state electrolytes with high conductivity.

Declaration Of Competing Interest:
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Acknowledgment:
The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Numbers 21875195, 22021001 and 51777208).

Supplementary Data:
Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssi.2021.115768.

Body:
Traditional lithium-ion batteries have potential safety hazards due to the use of flammable organic electrolytes, so solid state electrolytes with high safety have attracted more and more attention [1,2]. In comparison, all-solid-state electrolytes have the advantages of high safety and high energy density, among which polyether polymers (such as polyoxyethylene, PEO) have attracted lots of attention due to their low cost, easy processing and good flexibility [3–5]. However, the ionic conductivity of PEO at room temperature is only 10−8 to 10−6 S cm−1, which seriously limits its application. The PEO polymer all solid state electrolyte was first proposed by Wright et al. [6], and PEO electrolyte was widely studied and reported.

PEO is a semi crystalline polymer. When lithium salt is added to PEO matrix, lithium ion will be complexed with ether oxygen atoms of PEO segment, resulting in the dissociation and dissolution of lithium salt in PEO matrix [4,7]. At the same time, because PEO polymer segment will move above the glass transition temperature (Tg), therefore, Li+ will move with the movement of PEO segment and undergo a “complexation-decoupling-complexation” process between different ether oxygen atoms, thereby realizing the conduction of lithium ion [8,9]. It is found that the conduction of Li+ generally occurs in the amorphous phase region of PEO, so inert fillers (Al2O3, SiO2, TiO2, etc.) are added to inhibit the formation of crystalline phase of PEO [10–12], so as to increase the proportion of amorphous region and the conduction path of Li+ to improve the conductivity.

When the temperature rises above the melting point temperature (Tm), the crystallization region of PEO disappears completely, and the entire PEO matrix can conduct lithium ions. However, it is still found that the ionic conductivity of the composite electrolyte with inert ceramics is higher than that of the undoped electrolyte. Therefore, Groce et al. [12] proposed that the ceramic's surface -OH groups are expected to favor interactions (via hydrogen bonding) with PEO ether oxygen segment and lithium salt anion, accompanied with a consequent increase in salt dissociation and in the PEO amorphous phase fraction, the hydroxyl groups on the ceramic surface may compete with lithium ions to form complexes with PEO segments, thus promoting the structural modification of the polymer segments on the ceramic surface, thereby forming lithium ion transport channels. In addition, other researchers [13–16] have also observed the phenomenon of interaction between the ceramic surface and lithium salt, but there are also reports that there is no interaction between the filler prepared by gas phase method and lithium salt [17]. Therefore, we are interested in how the Lewis sites on the ceramic surface affect the lithium ion conduction in PEO system. We hope to have a deeper understanding of the interaction mechanism of ceramic surface, and provide ideas for the development of composite electrolyte with high conductivity.

Based on this, considering that the most common ceramic surface group is hydroxyl, and phenolic resin is the product of polycondensation of formaldehyde and resorcinol. We obtained stable phenolic resin nano-spherical filler (RFS) with a large number of polar groups (phenolic group) after hydrothermal curing [18,19]. Then we doped RFS fillers into PEO-LiClO4 system to study the effect of hydroxyl on lithium ion conduction. Meanwhile, it was previously reported that when phenolic resin polymer is blended with PEO polymer, it can reduce the crystallinity through hydrogen bond interaction, and can increase the additional transmission channel to increase the ionic conductivity [20,21]. And when we immobilized the phenolic resin polymer into nano-spherical fillers, through a series of analysis and theoretical calculations, we found that the main function of the RFS filler is the complexation of hydroxyl oxygen, rather than the interaction of hydrogen bonds. This discovery is of great significance to our understanding of how the polar groups (hydroxyl groups) on the surface of the filler affect the lithium ion conduction in the PEO-based solid-state electrolyte.

Ammonia solution (25%–28%), resorcinol and formaldehyde solution (37 wt%) were purchased from Aladdin. RFS was synthesized according to the literature [18,19] with some modification. 600 μL of ammonia solution were added to 60 mL of water. Then 0.2 g of resorcinol and 600 μL of formaldehyde solution were added and reacted for 24 h under stirring. Then put it in a polytetrafluoroethylene hydrothermal reactor at 100 °C and react for 24 h. The red-brown solid obtained after the reaction was washed with a large amount of water and ethanol by centrifuged, and dried in vacuum at 100 °C to obtain red-brown RFS powders.

PEO (Mw=600,000) was purchased from BASF Corporation. Anhydrous acetonitrile and lithium perchlorate (LiClO4) were purchased from Aladdin. PEO and LiClO4 with a molar ratio of 16 were dissolved in anhydrous acetonitrile to form a solution with a mass fraction of wt.10%. Then RFS with 6% mass fraction were added into PEO-LiClO4 solution. Stirred evenly and then put into polytetrafluoroethylene mold to volatilize acetonitrile solvent to form a membrane. Finally, the composite electrolyte membrane was prepared by vacuum drying at 50 °C for 24 h to remove the residual solvent. The membranes were abbreviated as PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS.

The morphology of RFS was observed by field scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, S-4800, Hitachi). The interaction information of components in solid-state composite electrolyte membrane (SCE) was detected by attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR) using Nicolet IS5 spectrometer. The thermal behaviors of SCE were evaluated by differential scanning calorimeter (DSC 204, Netzsch). The melting temperatures (Tm) and apparent melting enthalpy (ΔHm) were determined from the DSC endothermic peaks, and the degree of crystallinity (X) of SCE was calculated from the following equations: X=ΔHm,PEO/(fPEO × ΔHPEO), where fPEO is the mass fraction of PEO in the corresponding SCE, ΔHm,PEO is the apparent melting enthalpy per gram of the SCE and ΔHPEO is the heat of melting per gram of 100% crystalline PEO, 213.7 J/g [22,23]. The SCE were punched into a circle with a diameter of 16 mm, and sandwiched between two stainless steel (SS) electrodes to calculate the ionic conductivity. The AC impedance was measured by Solartron 1260 impedance spectrometer in the range of 1 Hz–1 MHz over a temperature 25 to 100 °C in 10 °C intervals on heating. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) test was conducted on CHI 660E at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s to evaluate the electrochemical stability. The salt diffusion coefficient (D) was calculated by using the method of restricted diffusion [24,25]. When the symmetrical cell (Li/SCE/Li) was polarized with constant current, the time is long enough to generate the concentration gradient, and the current interruption will cause the open circuit voltage (V) decrease exponentially over time. The salt diffusion coefficient can be obtained from the slope of ln(ΔV) with time, ln ∆ V=− π 2 D L 2 t + A where D is the salt diffusion coefficient and L is thickness of electrolyte film. The galvanostatic polarization is continued at 0.1 mA until the open circuit voltage is about 10–20 mV.

The SCE was assembled in a lithium symmetric cells and the lithium-ion transference number (tLi+ ) was calculated by the following formulas: t Li +=I s ∆ V − I 0 R 0 I 0 ∆ V − I s R s

where I0and Isare the initial and steady state current; ∆V is the applied constant potential difference (20 mV); R0 and Rs are the interface impedance before and after polarization.

Electrochemical tests were carried out on the coin-type cells with LiFePO4 as cathode, SCE and lithium metal as anode. LiFePO4 (Taiwan Likai Co., Ltd.,), PEO16 and carbon were mixed in acetonitrile at a weight ratio of 6:2:2 and stirred for 12 h. The mixed slurry was coated on aluminum foil and dried at 60 °C in vacuum for 24 h. The positive disks were punched into a circle with a diameter of 12 mm and the active mass loading is about 1.0 mg/cm2. All cells were assembled in an Ar-filled glove box. The galvanostatic charge-discharge performance of the coin-type cells were tested in a potential range of 2.5 to 3.8 V at 60 °C using a NEWARE battery testing instrument.

In order to insight the intermolecular interaction in the electrolyte, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed by using Gaussian09 E01 [26] software. The geometries of all molecules and ions were optimized using B3LYP-D3 [27,28] density functional with def2-SVP [29] basis set. Vibration analysis was performed at the same level to ensure that the geometry was a minimum. Single point energy of all optimized geometries was further calculated using M06-2×-D3 [30] density functional with def2-TZVP basis set. The energy used for discussion was single point energy. The phenolic resin was simplified to phenol, and the PEO was simplified to dimethyl ether. The visualization of geometries were performed using CYLview [31] software.

According to the literature, the synthesized nano-spherical phenolic resin is shown in Fig. 1a, and its diameter is approximately 250 nm. Fig. 1b is the infrared spectrum analysis of the surface group of the synthesized RFS. It is found that OH stretching vibration occurs at 3440 cm−1; 2930 and 2850 cm−1 correspond to CH2 stretching vibration [32]; the peak at 1620 cm−1 is CCstretching vibration in benzene ring; the peak near 1460 cm−1 is related to the bending vibration of CH; the peak at 1100 cm−1 belongs to the stretching vibration of CH2 OH [33]. Combining the above information, we have clearly obtained phenolic resin nano-spheres with polar groups (phenolic hydroxyl groups) on the surface.

Fillers RFS were added to PEO-LiClO4 to prepare solid-state composite electrolyte membranes. Their electron microscope pictures and actual pictures are shown in Fig. S1, and the fillers RFS were dispersed in the PEO matrix. Ions are transported in the PEO matrix, and its ion transport properties can be characterized by ion conductivity, lithium ion transference number and salt diffusion coefficient. The ionic conductivity (σ) of the SCE was calculated by the equation (σ=L/RA). Where L and S represents the thickness of SCE and the contact area (2 cm2) in the symmetric cells SS/SCE/SS, R is the bulk resistance obtained from the AC impedance spectra of the symmetric cells. The ionic conductivity of SCE doped with RFS at different temperatures is shown in Fig. 2 . After doping with 6% mass fractions of RFS, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 + 6%RFS has a certain degree of increase, such as at 25 °C, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 7.08 × 10−8 S cm−1 and 1.14 × 10−6 S cm−1, respectively. At 60 °C, the ionic conductivity of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 8.85 × 10−5 and 2.88 × 10−4 S cm−1, respectively. It is preliminary judged that adding an appropriate amount of fillers with a large number of polar groups (phenolic hydroxyl) on the surface will help increase the ion conductivity of the pure solid-state electrolyte PEO16. In order to further study how RFS affects the conduction of PEO to lithium ions, we performed a fitting analysis on the temperature-conductivity data.

In principle, when lithium ion is transported through the movement of the polymer PEO segment, the temperature-dependent ion transport behavior obeys the empirical Vogel-Tammann-Fulcher (VTF) equation [34–36]. The well-known VTF equation as following: σ=A T − 0.5 exp − B / R T − T o where A and B are fitting parameters relating the effective charge carrier concentration and pseudo-activation energy related to the segmental motion of the polymer chains, respectively, the T o is the equilibrium glass transition temperature, usually 30–50 °C lower than T g , here we take the value Tg-50. R is the ideal gas constant (8.314 J mol−1 K−1). Since PEO is a semi-crystalline polymer below the melting point, it fits the relationship between its ionic conductivity and temperature above the melting point temperature. The fitted equation curve is in Fig. S2, we can get that the pseudo-activation energy of PEO is about 10.2 kJ mol−1; the value of PEO + 6%RFS is about 9.8 kJ mol−1. It shows that the energy barrier of Li+ conduction through PEO segment decreases after adding RFS, which is more conducive to Li+ conduction.

The lithium ion transference number (tLi+) can distinguish the ratio of cations (lithium ions) to all ion migration. The higher its value, the greater the contribution of lithium ions to conductivity. The lithium ion transference number can be calculated by measuring the current relaxation curve and impedance value of the lithium‑lithium symmetrical cell under the polarization voltage. As shown in Fig. S3, the lithium ion transference number of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 0.20 and 0.34, respectively, which means the tLi+ increases after RFS is added, that is, RFS is conducive to lithium ion migration.

The diffusion coefficient (D) of the salt can also provide useful information of ion mobility. The diffusion coefficient is calculated by the restricted diffusion method [24,37]. When we ignore the interaction between ions, the ion conductivity can be expressed as: σ=∑ n i z i μ i

And the relationship between ionic mobility (μ) and diffusion coefficient (D) is in accordance with Einstein's equation: μ=eD/(TkB). From this we can find that the greater the diffusion coefficient, the greater the ion mobility. As shown in the Fig. S4, the diffusion coefficients of PEO16 and PEO16 + 6%RFS are 2.43 × 10−8 and 5.9 × 10−8 cm2•s−1, respectively. The relevant parameters are listed in Table 1 . Combined with the calculation of the t Li+, we obtain the lithium ion diffusion coefficient (D+) of the two, and further confirm that the addition of RFS promotes the diffusion of lithium ions, which in turn leads to an increase in ion conductivity. The movement of lithium ions in the all-solid-state PEO matrix depends on the movement of the PEO segment. Therefore, the increase in the D+ should also be attributed to the enhancement of the movement ability of the PEO polymer segment. We confirmed the change of polymer PEO in composite solid state electrolyte by thermal analysis.

It is well known that the migration of lithium ions in PEO matrix depends on the movement of PEO segments. After RFS is added, the increase of the migration rate of lithium ions is likely due to the improvement of the movement ability of PEO segments. Therefore, we further studied the change of PEO by thermal analysis. PEO is a semi-crystalline polymer, so the thermal behavior of various SCE can be evaluated by DSC equipment. Fig. 3 shows DSC traces of different composite electrolyte. All curves clearly show the melting-crystallization peaks of SCE, the corresponding melting temperature (Tm), and apparent melting enthalpy (ΔHm) were obtained from the DSC endothermic peaks [38,39]. Comparing the changes of this information before and after doping can determine how the RFS fillers affects the relative physical properties of PEO. The glass transition temperature (Tg) represents the lowest temperature at which the polymer molecular segments can move. The more flexible the polymer segments, the lower the glass transition temperature [40–42]. When the lithium salt dissolved in the PEO matrix, the lithium ions move along with the chain segment of PEO. Therefore, the stronger the PEO segment movement ability, the faster the lithium ion migration rate. Unexpectedly, from the Fig. 3a, we found that the addition of RFS fillers have little effect on the Tm of the base PEO, and has a greater effect on the Tg of the base PEO (from −27.9 to −50.5 °C). When further analysis of the PEO melting enthalpy to calculate the crystallinity of PEO (X%), it was found that the addition of RFS fillers also does not significantly reduce the crystallinity of PEO. The relevant data are shown in Table 2 . Generally, the addition of inert fillers (TiO2, SiO2, Al2O3) to the PEO matrix will significantly reduce the Tm of PEO, and accompanied by a decrease in crystallinity, which can increase the effective path for conducting Li+ in PEO [11,13,43]. To our surprise, the fillers RFS did not reduce the crystallinity of PEO, but decreased the Tg of PEO and increased the mobility ability of the PEO segments, which is also conducive to the conduction of the PEO segment to Li+. Meanwhile, this result is consistent with the conclusion that we found in the VTF fitting equation that adding RFS can significantly reduce the pseudo-activation energy of PEO to enhance the movement ability of the segment. The doped PEO becomes easier to conduct lithium ions, which may be due to the enhancement of PEO segment mobility. In order to illustrate the problem more fully, we also added the same proportion of RFS fillers to PEO system without lithium salt, as shown in Fig. 3b. Compared with the case of adding LiClO4, according to the changes of Tm and crystallinity, the addition of RFS can't reduce the crystallinity of PEO, that is, the effect of RFS on PEO is relatively weak, and it is more likely to affect the complex state of PEOLi+. In order to verify the conjecture, we studied the interaction between ions and groups by infrared spectroscopy.

Infrared spectroscopy is an effective means to diagnose the changes in the interaction between ions and groups. As shown in Fig. 4a, it is observed that the C-O-C stretching mode of PEO polymer in the region of 1000 to 1200 cm−1 shows a strong triplet state with the center at 1103 cm−1 and the shoulders peak at 1147 and 1061 cm−1. In this mode, the 1103 cm−1 peak represents the amorphous phase region, while the peaks at 1147 and 1061 cm−1 are the crystalline phases of characteristic PEO [44–48]. After lithium salt (LiClO4) was added into PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4b, the peak at 1103 moved to 1096 cm−1 [45,49], and the shoulders peak part disappeared, suggesting that Li+ ions coordinated with the ether oxygen group of PEO, and broke part of its crystalline region and increased the ratio of amorphous region. The RFS fillers were doped into the PEO matrix, as shown in Fig. 4c, the COC band of the amorphous region at 1096 cm−1 shifted to 1099 cm−1. Compared with the position in pure PEO (1103 cm−1), we speculate that the ether oxygen group in the amorphous region are partially dissociated from Li+ ions, and the complexation effect is weakened, which is also consistent with the decreasing trend of Tg of PEO observed by DSC. The complexation between lithium ion and ether oxygen group is weakened, and lithium ion may combine with anion (ClO4 −) and not dissolve in PEO matrix. Therefore, we have characterized ClO4 − group in PEO matrix. It has been reported that 624 cm−1 of absorption band is related to free anions that does not directly with Li+, and 635 cm−1 is attributed to contact ion pairs [41,50]. As shown in Fig. 4d, we analyzed the area ratio of the relevant are in PEO16 solid state electrolyte, the free ClO4 − ions in dissociation state accounted for 89.7% of all anions, while in the PEO16 + 6%RFS solid state electrolyte, the value is 90.1%. Therefore, we believe that Li+ is still in the complexation state in PEO matrix, but the complex state of lithium ion is different. When RFS was added, we came to the conclusion that lithium ions were still in a complex state, but the complexation between PEO and Li+ was weakened, so the biggest possibility is that some lithium ions are complexed with RFS. The oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl groups on the RFS surface may be similar to PEO ether oxygen, which can complex with lithium ions. This conjecture is verified by theoretical calculation of binding energy. (See Fig. 5)

According to theoretical calculations, the binding energy of the phenolic hydroxyl group and the ether oxygen in PEO is about −8.8 kcal mol−1, compared with binding energy of the lithium ion with the ether oxygen in PEO is about −39.5 kcal mol−1, we can clearly find that the hydrogen bonding force of RFS and PEO is obviously weaker than the force of ether oxygen in PEO and Li+. Therefore, when RFS fillers are added to the PEO-LiClO4 system, the hydrogen bonding effect of RFS is not enough to affect the complex state of ether oxygen and Li+. Similarly, we calculated that the oxygen atom in the phenolic hydroxyl group can also be complexed with Li+, and its binding force is about −36.6 kcal mol−1, which is similar to the ether oxygen atom in the PEO segment. So, we judged that a part of the lithium ions will be complexed with the oxygen atoms in the hydroxyl group on the surface of the RFS. Correspondingly, the complexation of the ether oxygen with Li+ in PEO will be weakened. This phenomenon is consistent with the shift of COC in PEO found in the infrared spectrum. Moreover, this partial substitution also results in the decrease of Li+ binding to PEO, which may also explain why the Tg of PEO decreased and the segmental mobility increased with the addition of RFS. So far, we believe that the surface hydroxyl group of RFS has a weak effect on the ether oxygen segment of PEO, and the main occurrence is that the oxygen atom in the hydroxyl group can be complexed with Li+, which changes the complex state of ether oxygen and Li+. This also explains the formation of lithium ion channels on the ceramic surface, which is also due to the oxygen atoms in their surface hydroxyl groups providing lithium ion complexing sites, which together with the ether oxygen in PEO build lithium ion transport channels on the surface.

In addition, we also calculated the binding energy of the phenolic hydroxyl group and the anion (ClO4 −), which is about −17.8 kcal mol−1, which is also significantly weaker than the binding energy of Li+ and oxygen atoms. Combined with the fact that there is no obvious shift of anion in the infrared spectrum (Fig. 4d), that is, the adsorption of phenolic hydroxyl groups on anions is not obvious. Therefore, we think that the hydroxyl effect on the filler surface is mainly reflected in the reconstruction of the complex state of oxygen atom and lithium ion, and the specific process can refer to the schematic diagram (Fig. 6 ). At the interface of RFS and PEO, the oxygen in the hydroxyl group provides the complexation site for lithium ion. Therefore, lithium ion complexes with ether oxygen in PEO and oxygen in the hydroxyl group, and migrates with the movement of the chain segment of PEO, so as to realize the conduction of lithium ion at the interface.

The prepared SCE membrane were assembled in a LiFePO4 half-cell, and its rate performance and cycle performance was tested at 60 °C. As shown in the Fig. 7 , when PEO16 + 6%RFS was used as a composite electrolyte under different current densities, the discharge capacity of LiFePO4 in 0.2C above current density is greater than that of PEO16 as electrolyte, this may be because the ionic conductivity of PEO16 + 6%RFS is greater than that of PEO16. In the cycle performance test, the discharge capacity decayed with time. This is due to the cyclic volumetric change caused by the LiFePO4 FePO4 two-phase reaction, which in turn leads to insufficient contact between the electrode and the electrolyte interface [51].

In this paper, the addition of RFS with hydroxyl groups on the surface to PEO + LiClO4 system can significantly increase the ionic conductivity, and the characterization found that the increase of ionic conductivity does not depend on the increase of the proportion of amorphous region, but on the decrease of Tg, that is, RFS can increase the segmental mobility of PEO in PEO16, so that it can conduct lithium ion faster. At the same time, through the lithium ion transference number and salt diffusion coefficient test, it is found that the diffusion rate of lithium ion has increased. This change in the complexation state of lithium ions can be clearly observed through infrared spectroscopy. The degree of complexation between Li+ and ether oxygen in PEO is weakened, and the oxygen in the hydroxyl group is partially complexed with lithium ions. The change of this interaction force is proved by theoretical calculation of their binding energy that lithium ions can be complexed with the ether oxygen in PEO or the oxygen in the hydroxyl group. This also verifies the presence of lithium ion transport channels on the filler surface, which provides support for the design of solid state electrolytes with high conductivity.

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Numbers 21875195, 22021001 and 51777208).

Supplementary material Image 1

Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssi.2021.115768.